During April 1947, the Royal New Zealand Navy (RNZN) was affected by a series of peaceful mutinies amongst the enlisted sailors of four ships and two shore bases. Over 20% of the RNZN's enlisted personnel were punished or discharged for their involvement.
The main cause was the poor rates of pay compared to the rest of the New Zealand Defence Force (which was overall well behind equivalent civilian wages), and was instigated by the release of a government review on the matter. Complaints were that the new pay rates were still inferior to the other branches of the military, and the increases would be consumed by taxes, inflation, and cancellation of allowances and benefits. The conclusion of the review was a year overdue, but a previously promised backdating of the increase was not initially announced. The poor living and working conditions aboard RNZN ships was another issue, compounded by sailors having no effective way to make dissatisfaction known to the higher ranks (many experienced divisional officers had been discharged as part of post-war demobilisation efforts, and although lower-deck welfare committees had been implemented, they were not permitted to discuss or propose alterations to shipboard conditions). Dissatisfaction with peacetime duties and opportunities also contributed: many sailors were locked into enlistment periods of up to 12 years, and demobilisation efforts had prioritised those enlisted specifically for the duration of World War II.
The main mutiny started on the morning of 1 April, when around 100 sailors from the shore base HMNZS Philomel, in Devonport, declared their intent to refuse duty in protest at the governments' broken promises on pay. They were joined by another hundred personnel from the cruiser HMNZS Black Prince and the corvette HMNZS Arbutus, who marched off the base. After campaigning for three days and winning the right to backdated pay, the mutineers were offered a choice: return to duty and accept punishment, or be discharged. The majority chose the latter; these men were financially penalised, denied access to veterans' benefits, and had trouble finding other work because of government bans on employing them. The 23 who returned to duty were punished through rank reductions, reductions in rank and pay, or short periods of imprisonment.
On 8 April, seven sailors at the shore base HMNZS Tasman, in Lyttelton, refused to work and demanded to be discharged. Also that morning, the captain of the Castle-class minesweeper HMNZS Hautapu was presented a letter stating that sailors were dissatisfied with the handling of lower-deck committees, and eleven sailors deserted. Some returned to duty voluntarily, but the rest were arrested by police. Punishment (both for those who returned voluntarily and those arrested) consisted of sentences of 60 days imprisonment, commuted to durations of 14 to 24 days.
At the time of the initial mutiny, the cruiser HMNZS Bellona was in Australian waters. Initial efforts by officers alleviated concerns over the pay review, but when the ship returned to New Zealand in late April, the pay disparity issue resurfaced, along with several sailors' desire to seek discharge, and concern over the treatment of the other groups of mutineers. While on day leave on Anzac Day (25 April), about 100 of Bellona's ship's company decided not to return to duty. They recruited 40 sailors from Philomel waiting to be posted to the cruiser, but the actions of the cruiser's officers prevented the group from drawing off any sailors on duty. On 28 April, the group presented their demands to the captain, but were informed that anyone not reporting for duty the following day would be considered Absent Without Leave. The next morning, 52 sailors were marked as having deserted, although all but 20 returned before Bellona's next deployment two months later. The Bellona mutineers received punishments of up to 92 days imprisonment, with some losing rank or good conduct badges, while the deserters additionally lost all unpaid pay and allowances. Arrest warrants were issued for those who did not return, with one sailor at large for over two years.
The mutinies and the resulting manpower shortage forced the RNZN to remove Black Prince from service, and set the navy's development and expansion back by a decade. Despite this impact, the size and scope of the events have been downplayed over time.