Andy Murray was the defending champion, and top seed, but lost to Sam Querrey in the quarterfinals. Despite his loss, Murray retained the ATP No. 1 singles ranking at the end of the tournament, as Rafael Nadal, Stan Wawrinka, and Novak Djokovic all failed to gain enough ranking points to surpass him.Roger Federer won the title, achieving his unprecedented  eighth Wimbledon Gentleman's Singles Title and 19th Grand Slam men's singles title, defeating Marin Čilić in the final, 6–3, 6–1, 6–4. Federer thus became the only player to win the Gentleman's singles title eight times, surpassing Pete Sampras and William Renshaw, who had each won it seven times.  Federer also became only the second man in the Open era, after Björn Borg in 1976, to win Wimbledon without losing a set. This was Federer's 70th appearance at a Grand Slam, tying the record for male players and a record-breaking 11th men's singles final at the same Grand Slam tournament. In addition, by virtue of his third-round win over Mischa Zverev, Federer won his 317th Grand Slam singles match, surpassing Serena Williams' record of 316 match wins and giving him the all-time record for the most Grand Slam singles wins by any player, male or female. The tournament marked the fifth time that Nadal and Federer won the French Open and Wimbledon respectively in the same year.This was also the first Grand Slam tournament since the 2009 French Open in which Murray, Nadal and Djokovic all failed to reach the semifinals, and the first time since 2004 that no player reached all 4 quarterfinals in a year. With his win over Murray, Querrey became the first American man to reach a Grand Slam semifinal since Andy Roddick at the 2009 Wimbledon Championships  and the second time to beat a world No 1 player, the first was Djokovic at the 2016 Wimbledon Championships.   For the first time since the 2005 Australian Open, David Ferrer was not seeded at a Grand Slam and the first time since the 2004 US Open that fellow Spaniard Guillermo García López did not play at a Grand Slam, ending his streak of 50 consecutive Grand Slam appearances.Stan Wawrinka had the chance to complete his career Grand Slam set, having won the 2014 Australian Open, 2015 French Open and 2016 US Open, but he lost in the first round to Daniil Medvedev.