Abdul-Rahim Mahmoody Sārbān (Persian: عبدالرحیم ساربان‎), known simply as Sarban, was an Afghan singer (1930 – April 2, 1993) 
Born in Kabul, Afghanistan he is known for his unique voice and music style that no other singer from Afghanistan has been able to surpass. Sarban's songs are unrivalled for their choice of poetry, originality of composition, and sophisticated orchestration. Known as the Frank Sinatra of Afghanistan, he was the first Afghan artist to break away from the prevalent musical forms in Afghanistan at the time, namely the Indian inspired pure classical tradition (epitomized by Ustad Sarahang, Rahim Bakhsh and others), and the 'mohali' (regional & folk) musical traditions exemplified by the Pashto music, logari, qataghani, qarsak etc.  In partnership with the legendary composer Salim Sarmast, Sarban's music fused elements, rhythms and orchestration of the western musical traditions of jazz and "Belle Chanson" with the prevalent Afghan musical tradition to create a unique and lasting style which became an inspiration for all ensuing artists including the great Ahmad Zahir.
Born to a Tajik father from Kabul,  Sarban sung in both Dari and Pashto, with a deep and comprehensive understanding of the Persian poetic tradition (ranging from the poetry of Hafiz, Rumi, Khayyam to Khusro and Bedil).  Apart from his first few songs, Sarban chose the poems (lyrics) to all his songs, based on his own personal knowledge of the Persian literary canon. During the early stages of his career, Sarban worked with many musicians and composers such as Nainawaz and Taranasaz. However, during the middle and late stages of his career, he worked almost exclusively with the composer Salim Sarmast.  Sarban's songs Ahesta Bero, Khorsheede Man Ay Sarban, Dar Damane Sahra, Biya ke Borem ba Mazar, Moshke Taza Mebarad, Ay Shakhe Gul, Biya Ta Gul Beyafshanem, Ya Maula Dilam Tang Amada, Take Nabashi Hamdame Jani, Suraya Chara Am Kun, Tu Aftabi Wo Man, and many others are rank among the highest in the Afghan musical repertoire and are admired for their depth, refinement, and beauty.
Sarban's legacy permanently altered the Persian (Dari) musical tradition in Afghanistan. Almost every great artist that came after him including Ahmad Zahir & Farhad Darya considered him their primary source of inspiration and they ranked his musical repertoire as their main model of emulation.  A national icon and celebrity in Afghanistan, Sarban is also widely admired in other Persian-speaking countries like Iran and Tajikistan, where he gave live performances at the height of his career.
Sarban's artistic greatness, due to his eccentric and mysticist temperament, did not translate into financial prosperity for himself.  He was famed for refusing to do home (majlisi) shows for pay, and for giving the proceeds from his highly successful concerts to the beggars and the needy, without regard for his own or his family's financial well-being.  Sarban stopped producing songs in 1960s. During the 1970s he was mainly involved in concerts & in re-recording his earlier music for audiocassettes (his original recordings at Radio Kabul at the time could not be converted to audio cassette form due to lack of high quality sound equipment in Afghanistan). In 1984, Sarban suffered from a stroke which left him paralyzed and unable to speak.  This effectively ended his musical career.  During the civil war and unrest of 1990s in Kabul, Sarban left Afghanistan and migrated to Peshawar, Pakistan.   He lived in Pakistan until 1994 when he died in abject poverty.  12 years after his death, his remains were taken back to Afghanistan for reburial. to Kabul Afghanistan where he was reburied with pomp and honour as a national hero of Afghanistan for his contributions to furthering the art and culture of the country.