America's Got Talent (often abbreviated as AGT) is a televised American talent show competition, broadcast on the NBC television network. It is part of the global Got Talent franchise created by Simon Cowell, and is produced by FremantleMedia North America and SYCOtv, with distribution done by Freemantle. Since its premiere in June 2006, each season is run during the network's summer schedule, with the show having featured various hosts - it is currently hosted by Tyra Banks, since 2017. It is the first global edition of the franchise, after plans for a British edition in 2005 were suspended, following a dispute between Paul O'Grady, the planned host, and the British broadcaster ITV; production of this edition later resumed in 2007.The show attracts a variety of participants, from across the United States and abroad, to take part and who possess some form of talents, with acts ranging from singing, dancing, comedy, magic, stunts, variety, and other genres. Each participant who auditions attempts to secure a place in the live episodes of a season by impressing a panel of judges - the current line-up consists of Cowell, Howie Mandel, Mel B, and Heidi Klum. Those that make it into the live episodes compete against each other for both the judges' and public's vote in order to reach the live final, where the winner receives a large cash prize, paid over a period of time, and, since the third season, a chance to headline a show on the Las Vegas Strip.
Since its premiere, America's Got Talent has helped to unearth new talent and kickstart/boost the careers of various performers who took part in the competition, while the show itself has been a rating success for NBC, drawing in on average around 10 million viewers per season. In 2013, a book was entitled Inside AGT: The Untold Stories of America's Got Talent, was released, providing a description of the seasons, contestants, judges, and production techniques of the show, along with detailed interviews with contestants from all seasons, up to the date of the book's of publication. At present, the show is currently airing its thirteenth season, which premiered on May 29, 2018. A winter-spin off edition is currently being planned, entitled America's Got Talent: The Champions, featuring acts from previous seasons, as well as acts from international Got Talent shows.