Anahí Giovanna Puente de Velasco (née Anahí Giovanna Puente Portilla), known mononymously as Anahí (Spanish pronunciation: [anaˈi] born May 14, 1983), is a Mexican singer, songwriter, actress, record producer and dancer. In 1986, she started her career as a child actor at the age of two when she was cast on a Televisa production called Chiquilladas. She starred in many successful telenovelas, including Alondra (1995), Mujeres engañadas (1999), Primer amor, a mil por hora (2000), Clase 406 (2003), Rebelde (2004), RBD: La familia (2007) and Dos hogares (2011). She is one of the most followed Latin artists on social media, being called the Queen of Twitter by Mexican press, as she was the first Mexican person to reach a million followers on Twitter.She sings in various languages apart from Spanish, including English, Portuguese and Italian. She was a member of the seventh times Billboard Latin Music Awards winning and twice-nominated for a Latin Grammy Award group RBD, who has sold over 60 million albums worldwide.In 2009, she released her fifth solo album Mi Delirio, which sold a million copies worldwide. The album debuted at number two on Billboard's Latin Pop Albums chart and number four on Billboard's Top Latin Albums chart and was certified Gold in Brazil. In support of her album Mi Delirio, Mi Delirio World Tour, better known as "MDWT" was the first worldwide tour of Anahi, after RBD. According to Billboard, "MDWT" was the seventh most profitable tour of 2010.Her sixth studio album Inesperado (2016), was preceded by the hit singles "Rumba", "Eres" and "Amnesia". The single "Rumba", a collaboration with the reggaaton singer and producer Wisin, was peaked number one on Billboard's Tropical Songs chart. The album debuted on Billboard's Latin Pop Albums and Top Latin Albums charts, while it was number one on Billboard Brazil, with Anahi being the first Mexican artist to achieve that. She has sold over three million albums worldwide in her career as a solo artist, being the best-selling ex-RBD member in the United States. She is recognised as the Princess of Latin pop.