Anastacia Lyn Newkirk (born September 17, 1968) is an American singer-songwriter, producer and former dancer. Her first two albums Not That Kind (2000) and Freak of Nature (2001) were released in quick succession to major success. Spurred on by the multi-platinum, global smash "I'm Outta Love", Anastacia was awarded as the 'World's Best-Selling New Female Pop Artist' in 2001. Her commercial success continued with international hits such as "Paid My Dues", "One Day In Your Life" and the official song of the 2002 FIFA World Cup, "Boom". After recovering from cancer, she returned with 2004's Anastacia which deviated from previous albums into pop-rock. Peaking at number one in 11 countries, it became Europe's second biggest selling album of the year. Its lead single "Left Outside Alone" remained at number one on the European Billboard chart for 15 weeks and helped Anastacia launch the most successful European tour by a solo artist that same year. The album also spawned another three singles: "Sick and Tired", "Welcome to My Truth", and "Heavy on My Heart". 
In 2005, the multi-platinum compilation project Pieces of a Dream was released which spawned the chart topping duet with Eros Ramazzotti, "I Belong to You (Il Ritmo della Passione)". Her fourth studio album Heavy Rotation (2008) produced the songs "Absolutely Positively", "Defeated", and "I Can Feel You". Her cover album It's a Man's World (2012) was followed by a sixth studio album Resurrection (2014), which reached the top ten in the European charts. Her Ultimate Collection was released in 2015 and peaked in the top ten of the UK charts, giving the singer her sixth top ten album in Britain. In 2017, Anastacia released her new studio album Evolution and its lead single "Caught In The Middle". Anastacia has established herself as one of the best selling international female singers of the 2000s and 2010s. As of 2016, she has reported world-wide sales of more than
50 million. She has had five top ten singles on U.S. Billboard's Dance Club chart and three albums on Top Album Sales chart.Known for her powerful mezzo-soprano voice and her small stature of 5 feet 2 inches (157 cm), she has been dubbed "the little lady with the big voice". Also famed for her trademark glasses, she underwent corrective LASIK surgery in August 2005, although she still frequently wears them.
During her life Anastacia has battled many health problems. She was diagnosed with Crohn's disease at age 13, breast cancer at age 34, and supraventricular tachycardia at age 39. In 2013 Anastacia was diagnosed with breast cancer for a second time. On October 1, 2013 to coincide with Breast Cancer Awareness Month, Anastacia informed the media that she had undergone a double mastectomy. In recognition of her decade-long charitable efforts in breast cancer awareness, Anastacia became only the second woman to be presented with the Humanitarian Award at the GQ Men of the Year Awards in 2013.

