Ashish Nehra 
( pronunciation  Hindi: आशीष नेहरा; born 29 April 1979) is a former
Indian cricketer who played in all formats of the game. He is often nicknamed as "'NehraJi'" by his colleagues and fans. 
He was born to Mr. Diwan Singh Nehra and his wife Sumitra Nehra on 29 April 1979 into a Hindu jat family. 
Nehra has always had a career troubled with injuries and fitness issues. In an interview, he revealed that he had gone under as much as 12 surgeries. Yuvraj Singh had even once joked about this and said "Ashish Nehra is player who can get injured while sleeping too”. Due to fitness issues, he had been absent from the national scene for extended stretches but had been a part of the Indian team in two largely successful Cricket World Cup campaigns, two Asia Cups, and three ICC Champions Trophy. He had also been particularly effective in the Indian Premier League, in which he has represented five different teams. Nehra was called "one of the best bowlers that the India national cricket team has ever seen" by Ravi Shastri. M.S. Dhoni also suggested Nehra's name as the future bowling coach for India considering his massive experience, his ability to swing the ball both ways and his ability to bowl well under pressure.Nehra announced his retirement from all forms of cricket in late 2017 with the Twenty20 International match against New Zealand on the 1st of November 2017 as his last appearance. His last match was at Feroz Shah Kotla Ground in New Delhi. His retirement struck some of his biggest fans around the world especially hard. Javagal Srinath in honour of Nehra's phenomenal career said, "This is the saddest retirement the sport has had to see since Sachin Tendulkar and will leave a hole that cannot be filled. His expertise, way of mentoring the team, and leading from the shadows will never be forgotten by any of the team members.". 
On the eve of his farewell game, Delhi & District Cricket Association renamed both the ends of the Feroz Shah Kotla Ground as "Ashish Nehra End" and thus Nehra becoming second bowler in the cricket history after James Anderson (cricketer) to have bowled from the end named after him.  
Nehra is the second oldest player to represent India in Twenty20 International Cricket at the age of 38 years 186 days which is only exceeded by Rahul Dravid who played at the age of 38 years 232 days.