Baahubali: The Beginning is a 2015 Indian epic action film directed by S. S. Rajamouli. The film was produced by Shobu Yarlagadda and Prasad Devineni and was shot in both Tamil and Telugu . The film stars Prabhas, Rana Daggubati, Anushka Shetty, and Tamannaah in the lead roles, with Ramya Krishnan, Sathyaraj, and Nassar in supporting roles. The first of two cinematic parts, the film follows Shivu, an adventurous young man who helps his love, a rebellious warrior intending to rescue the former queen of Maghizmathi. In the process, he learns of his true identity as the heir to the throne of Maghizmathi, the son of Amarendra Baahubali, whose tale is narrated to him by Kattappa, a loyal slave. When asked about Amarendra's whereabouts, the slave reveals that he was the one who killed him. The reason behind this is explained in the follow-up Baahubali 2: The Conclusion.
The film was conceived by Rajamouli's father K. V. Vijayendra Prasad, who randomly told him a story about Sivagami, a woman who carries a baby in her hand while crossing a river, and a few years later about Kattappa, which intrigued Rajamouli. His fascination with mythology and the tales of Amar Chitra Katha comics further fuelled his interest in the story. However, it took the writers three months to complete the final draft. The soundtrack and background score were composed by M. M. Keeravani while the cinematography, production design, and VFX were handled by K. K. Senthil Kumar, Sabu Cyril and V. Srinivas Mohan respectively.
The film was made on a budget of ₹180 crore (US$26 million), making it the most expensive Indian film at its time of release. The film opened worldwide on 10 July 2015, garnering critical acclaim and record breaking box office success. With a worldwide box office gross of ₹650 crore (US$95 million), it became the highest-grossing film in India, third highest-grossing Indian film worldwide, and highest-grossing South Indian film, at the time of its release. Its Hindi dubbed version also broke several records by becoming the highest grossing dubbed film in India. Both budget and box office records since has been surpassed by Baahubali 2 : The Conclusion is the highest grossing Indian film of 2015 and the fourth highest grossing Indian film of all time.
It received several accolades. It won the National Film Award for Best Special Effects and Best Feature Film, becoming the first Telugu film to win the award. At the 63rd Filmfare Awards South, the Telugu version won five awards from ten nominations, including Best Film, Best Director for Rajamouli and Best Supporting Actress for Krishnan. The Beginning became the first Indian film to be nominated for Saturn Awards, receiving five nominations at the 42nd ceremony, including Best Fantasy Film and Best Supporting Actress for Tamannaah. The film's second and final cinematic part was released on 28 April 2017 and also she is the first actress in Tollywood part of younger generation to receive the prestigious Dada Saheb Phalke Excellence award in Indian cinema for the different shaded character in the movie along padmavat movie actors.