Bill Clinton, the 42nd President of the United States (1993–2001), had been publicly accused of sexual misconduct by four women: Juanita Broaddrick accused Clinton of raping her in 1978; Kathleen Willey accused Clinton of groping her without consent in 1993; Leslie Millwee accused Clinton of sexually assaulting her in 1980, and Paula Jones accused Clinton of exposing himself to her in 1991 as well as sexually harassing her. The Jones allegations became public in 1994, while Willey's and Broaddrick's accusations became public in 1999, toward the end of Clinton's second term as president. Millwee did not make her accusations until 2016. 
Clinton has adamantly denied all four accusations. Through his representatives, Clinton has responded to the allegations by attempting to discredit the credibility of the accusers, noting that (in the case of Broaddrick and Willey) they previously testified, under oath, that Clinton never made unwanted advances. Several witnesses close to Willey and Jones state that the two women described their encounter with Clinton as consensual.Of all the allegations made against him, Clinton has only admitted extramarital relationships with Monica Lewinsky and Gennifer Flowers. However, some commentators characterize Clinton's affair with White House intern Lewinsky as sexual misconduct because of the vast power imbalance between a president and an intern, even though at the time Lewinsky was 22 at the time and described the relationship as completely consensual. In 2018, Lewinsky herself began to question her longstanding view that her relationship with Clinton had been consensual, characterizing the relationship as a “gross abuse of power” wherein the power differential between the two was so great that “consent might well be rendered moot.”Charges of sexual misconduct on Bill Clinton's part resurfaced during the 2016 presidential campaign of his wife, Hillary Clinton. When a lewd recording discussing the ability to grope women when in power, was released during the campaign, Bill Clinton's accusers, Broaddrick, Willey, and Jones reemerged as critics of Hillary Clinton, accusing her of enabling her husband's alleged sexual assaults on them. They appeared as guests at the second 2016 presidential debate and referenced Bill Clinton in pre-debate statements.
During the 1990s, most Democrats suspended judgment on the three accusations or stated that they believed Clinton's denials. In the wake of the Harvey Weinstein sexual abuse allegations in 2017 and the many other such cases that soon emerged, the allegations against Clinton were revisited and lent more credibility than before..