Black Mirror is a British science fiction anthology television series created by Charlie Brooker, with Brooker and Annabel Jones serving as the programme showrunners. It examines modern society, particularly with regard to the unanticipated consequences of new technologies. Episodes are standalone, usually set in an alternative present or the near future, often with a dark and satirical tone, though some are more experimental and lighter.
The show premiered for two series on the British television channel Channel 4 on December 2011 and February 2013, respectively. After its addition to the catalogue in December 2014, Netflix purchased the programme in September 2015. It commissioned a series of 12 episodes later divided into the third and fourth series, each six episodes; the former was released on 21 October 2016 and the latter on 29 December 2017. A fifth series was announced on 5 March 2018.
Black Mirror was inspired by older anthology shows like The Twilight Zone, which were able to deal with controversial, contemporary topics without fear of censorship. Brooker developed Black Mirror to highlight topics related to humanity's dependency on technology, creating stories that feature "the way we live now – and the way we might be living in 10 minutes' time if we're clumsy."
The series has received positive reviews and seen an increase in interest internationally, particularly in the United States after its addition to Netflix. In 2017, the well-received episode "San Junipero", from series three, earned Black Mirror its first Primetime Emmy Awards, for Outstanding Television Movie and Outstanding Writing for a Limited Series, Movie, or Dramatic Special for Brooker. The fourth series earned eight nominations at the 70th Primetime Emmy Awards, including Outstanding Television Movie, Outstanding Writing for a Limited Series, Movie, or Dramatic Special, and Outstanding Lead Actor in a Limited Series or Movie for Jesse Plemons in the episode “USS Callister”, and Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Limited Series or Movie for Letitia Wright in the episode “Black Museum”.