Breaking Amish is an American reality television series on the TLC television network that debuted September 9, 2012. The series revolves around five young Anabaptist adults (four Amish and one Mennonite) who move to New York City in order to experience a different life and decide whether to return to their communities or remain outside their communities and face potential ostracism by their family and friends. It follows the cast members as they experience life in New York and face new situations involving work, friendship, romance, and lifestyle, plus the drama that develops between cast members as they undergo various experiences.The cast-members' move to New York City differs from Rumspringa, the rite of passage in which some 16-year-old Amish are allowed to experience the outside world and to decide whether or not they wish to remain with their home communities.
A news report on February 25, 2013, stated that TLC had ordered a second season of Breaking Amish with the original cast. Breaking Amish: Brave New World is considered the second season by TLC.A spinoff of Breaking Amish, entitled Breaking Amish: Los Angeles, debuted on July 21, 2013, with a different cast.On May 1, 2014, it was announced that Breaking Amish had spawned yet another spin-off, entitled Return to Amish. The spinoff followed Breaking Amish season 1 cast members who all lived in Pennsylvania at the time of production, except for Kate, who resided in New York City. The two-hour premiere debuted on June 1, 2014, with the season airing seven episodes. TLC has since considered Return to Amish as a season of Breaking Amish and not a spinoff.The second spinoff of Breaking Amish entitled Breaking Amish: Brooklyn debuted on September 18, 2014, with a new cast.
A fourth season of Breaking Amish returning under the title Return to Amish premiered on May 31, 2015. The fourth season will be Mary's last, with it possibly being the final season altogether.On June 14, 2016, it was reported that Breaking Amish had been renewed for a fifth season (Return to Amish for a third season), with a premiere date of July 10, 2016.  A trailer released by TLC revealed much of the original cast returning, including Mary, who reportedly would not return for a fifth season, and Sabrina, who appeared in seasons one, two and three, but was absent from the fourth.