Britain's Got Talent (often abbreviated to BGT) is a televised British talent show competition,  broadcast on ITV. It is part of the global Got Talent franchise created by Simon Cowell, and is produced by both Thames (formerly Talkback Thames) and Syco Entertainment production, with its distribution handled by FremantleMedia. Since its premiere in June 2007, each series has been aired in late Spring/early Summer, and hosted by Ant & Dec. To accompany each series since it first began, a sister show is run on ITV2 entitled Britain's Got More Talent presented by Stephen Mulhern. Initially planned for 2005 before the first series of America's Got Talent, a dispute between Paul O'Grady, the originally conceived host of the programme, and the broadcaster, led to production being suspended until 2007.
Contestants of any age, who possess some sort of talent, can audition for the show. Those that enter for a series, perform before a panel of judges to secure a place in the live episodes - the current lineup consists of Cowell, Amanda Holden, Alesha Dixon, and David Walliams. Those that make it through the auditions compete against other acts in a series of live semi-finals, with the winning two acts of each semi-final proceeding into the show's live final. The prize for winning the contest is a cash prize (the amount varying over the show's history), and an opportunity to perform at the Royal Variety Performance in front of members of the British Royal Family, including either Queen Elizabeth II or the Prince of Wales. To date, the show has had twelve winners, ranging from musicians and singers to variety acts, magicians and dancers.
A significant show in British popular culture, Britain's Got Talent is the UK's biggest television talent competition, ahead of both The X Factor (also created by Cowell) and The Voice UK. On average, it draws viewing figures of 9.9 million viewers per series - the show's live final in the third series attracted a record 17.3 million viewers, obtaining a 64.6% audience share at the time of its broadcast.  At present, the programme is contracted to run until 2019.