Chandragupta Maurya (reign: 321–297 BCE) was the founder of the Maurya Empire in ancient India. Of obscure origins, he was counselled and guided in his adolescent years by Chanakya, who is traditionally identified as Kauṭilya, the author of the Arthashastra (a treatise of statehood and nation building). Chandragupta, under the tutelage of Chanakya, conquered the Nanda Empire and the eastern provinces of the Seleucid Empire, thus establishing the largest empire that would exist in the Indian subcontinent.  Chandragupta's life and accomplishments are described in ancient Hindu, Buddhist and Greek texts, but they vary significantly in details from the Jaina accounts. Megasthenes served as a Greek ambassador in his court for four years. In Greek and Latin accounts, Chandragupta is known as Sandrokottos and Androcottus.Chandragupta Maurya was a pivotal figure in the history of India. Prior to his consolidation of power, Alexander the Great had invaded the northwest Indian subcontinent, but would abandon further campaigning into India in 326 BCE due to a mutiny in his army. The Macedonian Empire left behind satrapies in the disputed northwestern Indian subcontinent. The region, previously being governed by the Achaemenid Empire since the conquests of Darius the Great, was once again contested over. The Indus Valley and adjoining regions would be conquered by Chandragupta during the Seleucid–Mauryan war. The Mauryan Empire would eventually extend from Bangladesh to Afghanistan, and incorporate most of the Indian subcontinent. During the reign of Chandragupta's grandson, Ashoka, the Mauryan Empire would form the largest empire documented in Indian history.After unifying much of India, Chandragupta and Chanakya passed a series of major economic and political reforms. He established a strong central administration from Pataliputra (now Patna), patterned after Chanakya's text on governance and politics, the Arthashastra. Chandragupta's India was characterised by an efficient and highly organised structure. The empire built infrastructure such as irrigation, temples, mines and roads, leading to a strong economy. With internal and external trade thriving and agriculture flourishing, the empire built a large and trained permanent army to help expand and protect its boundaries. Chandragupta's reign, as well the dynasty that followed him, was an era when many religions thrived in India, with Buddhism, Jainism and Ajivika gaining prominence. Chandragupta is accredited to have followed Jainism later in his life. He first renounced his kingdom, and parted ways with his wealth and power. Ultimately Chandragupta, when relinquishing his kingdom, resided in Karnataka where he took up Sallekhana – the Jain religious ritual of peacefully welcoming death by fasting. His legacy includes his grandson, Emperor Ashoka, who was famous for ruling most of the Indian subcontinent and spreading Buddhism throughout the known world as ascribed in his historic pillars, known as the Edicts of Ashoka.