Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (IATA: BOM, ICAO: VABB), formerly known as Sahar International Airport, is the primary international airport serving the Mumbai Metropolitan Area, India. It is the second busiest airport in the country in terms of total and international passenger traffic after Delhi, and was the 14th busiest airport in Asia and 29th busiest airport in the world by passenger traffic in calendar year 2017 handling over 47.2 million passengers. Its passenger traffic was about 48.5 million in fiscal year 2017-18. The airport is the second busiest in the country in terms of cargo traffic also. In March 2017, the airport overtook London's Gatwick Airport as the world's busiest airport with only one operational runway at a time. The airport has three operating terminals spread over a total land area of 750 hectares (1,850 acres) and handles about 850 aircraft movements per day. It handled a record 51 movements in one hour on 16 September 2014.
Along with IGI Delhi, it was adjudged the "World's Best Airport" at Airport Service Quality Awards 2017 in the highest category of airports handling more than 40 million passengers annually by Airports Council International. It has also won the "Best Airport in India and Central Asia" award at the Skytrax 2016 World Airport Awards. It is one of the three airports in India to have implemented Airport Collaborative Decision Making (A-CDM) to ensure timely takeoffs and landings.The airport is operated by Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL), a Joint Venture between the Airports Authority of India and the GVK Industries Ltd led consortium which was appointed in February 2006 to carry out the modernisation of the Airport. The new integrated terminal T2 was inaugurated on 10 January 2014 and opened for international operations on 12 February 2014. A dedicated six lane, elevated road connecting the new terminal with the main arterial Western Express Highway was also opened to the public the same day.The airport is named after the 17th-century  Maratha emperor, In 1999, the previous "Sahar Airport" was re-renamed "Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport". CSIA's IATA airport code – "BOM" – is derived from Bombay, Mumbai's former name. It is situated across the suburbs of Santacruz, Vile Parle and Sahar village in Andheri.