Ciara Princess Harris (born October 25, 1985), known mononymously as Ciara (pronounced , see-ERR-ə), is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, dancer, model and actress. Born in Austin, Texas, she traveled around the world during her childhood, eventually moving to Atlanta, Georgia where she joined the girl group Hearsay (not to be confused with the British group Hear'Say); however, the group disbanded after having differences. It was at this time Ciara was noticed for her songwriting. In 2002, Ciara met music producer Jazze Pha. With his help, she signed a record deal with LaFace Records.
In 2004, Ciara released her debut studio album Goodies, which spawned four commercial singles: "Goodies", "1, 2 Step", "Oh" and "And I". Her first three singles peaked at No. 1, 2 and 2 respectively on the Billboard Hot 100.  The album was certified triple platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), and earned her four nominations at the 48th Annual Grammy Awards. During the same time, she was featured on Missy Elliott's "Lose Control" and Bow Wow's "Like You", both reached No. 3 on the Billboard Hot 100.  Ciara released her second studio album, Ciara: The Evolution, in 2006 which spawned the hit singles "Get Up", "Promise", "Like a Boy" and "Can't Leave 'em Alone". The album reached number one in the U.S. and was certified platinum.
Her third studio album, Fantasy Ride, released in 2009, was considerably less successful than Ciara's first two albums. However, it produced the international top-ten single "Love Sex Magic" featuring Justin Timberlake, which earned her a Grammy Award nomination for Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals. The following year, Ciara released her fourth studio album Basic Instinct, which was met with low sales and continued a downward trend in her commercial performance. However, the album included the R&B top-five single "Ride".  In 2011, she signed a new record deal with Epic Records, and released her self-titled fifth studio album, Ciara, in 2013 which included the R&B top-ten single "Body Party". In 2015, Ciara released her sixth album Jackie, which included the singles "I Bet" and "Dance like We're Making Love".
Ciara has also transitioned into acting and modeling.  In 2006, she made her film debut in All You've Got, followed by Mama, I Want to Sing! (2012) and That's My Boy (2012). In 2013, Ciara had a recurring role in the US TV series, The Game. In 2016, Ciara signed a signed a modeling contract with IMG.  That same year, she became a Global Brand Ambassador for the cosmetics giant Revlon.Since making her musical debut in 2004, Ciara has attained eight Billboard Hot 100 top-ten singles, including a number one. She has also earned numerous awards and accolades, including three BET Awards, three MTV Video Music Awards, three MOBO Awards, and one Grammy Award. To date, Ciara has sold over 23 million records worldwide.