The Dakota Access Pipeline protests, also known by the hashtag #NODAPL, are grassroots movements that began in early 2016 in reaction to the approved construction of Energy Transfer Partners' Dakota Access Pipeline in the northern United States. The pipeline was projected to run from the Bakken oil fields in western North Dakota to southern Illinois, crossing beneath the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers, as well as under part of Lake Oahe near the Standing Rock Indian Reservation. Many in the Standing Rock tribe considered the pipeline and its intended crossing of the Missouri River to constitute a threat to the region's clean water and to ancient burial grounds. In April 2016, Standing Rock Sioux elder LaDonna Brave Bull Allard established a camp as a center for cultural preservation and spiritual resistance to the pipeline; over the summer the camp grew to thousands of people.  The protests drew considerable  national and international attention and have been said to be "reshaping the national conversation for any environmental project that would cross the Native American land."The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers had conducted a limited review of the route and found no significant impact, but in March and April 2016 the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Interior, and the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation asked the Army Corps of Engineers to conduct a formal Environmental Impact Assessment and issue an Environmental Impact Statement. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe filed suit against the Corps of Engineers in July, but the motion was denied.  In December, under President Barack Obama's administration the Corps of Engineers denied an easement for construction of the pipeline under the Missouri River. An environmental impact assessment was to be conducted by the Army Corps, but many protesters continued camping on the site, not considering the matter closed. On January 24, 2017, newly elected President Donald Trump signed an executive order that reversed the Obama legislation and  advanced the construction of the pipeline under "terms and conditions to be negotiated, " expediting the environmental review that Trump described as an "incredibly cumbersome, long, horrible permitting process."  
On February 7, 2017, Trump authorized the Army Corps of Engineers to proceed, ending the environmental impact assessment and the associated public comment period.  Following Trump's approval for the completion of the pipeline the number of protesters gradually decreased and on  February 23, 2017 the National Guard and law enforcement officers evicted those that remained.  The pipeline was completed by April and its first oil was delivered on May 14, 2017.Several acts of violence used on protesters gained a great deal of media attention.  In September 2016, construction workers bulldozed a section of land the tribe had identified as sacred ground and when protesters entered the area security workers used attack dogs which bit at least six of the protesters and one horse. The incident was filmed and viewed by several million people on YouTube and other social media. In October, armed soldiers and police with riot gear and military equipment cleared an encampment that was directly in the proposed pipeline's path.  In November, police use of water cannons on protesters in freezing weather drew significant media attention. 
During the protest numerous high profile activists and Congressional Democrats spoke out for the rights of the tribe. 
Senator Bernie Sanders actively supported the movement and President Obama spoke with tribal leaders and offered his support.  Standing Rock Chairman David Archambault II, arrested and strip searched himself while protesting, gave numerous interviews explaining the tribe's positions; he also addressed the tribe's positions at the  UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, Switzerland.