Deadpool 2 is a 2018 American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics character Deadpool, distributed by 20th Century Fox. It is the eleventh installment in the X-Men film series, and a direct sequel to the 2016 film Deadpool. The film is directed by David Leitch from a script by Rhett Reese, Paul Wernick, and Ryan Reynolds, with Reynolds starring in the title role alongside Josh Brolin, Morena Baccarin, Julian Dennison, Zazie Beetz, T.J. Miller, Brianna Hildebrand, and Jack Kesy. In the film, Deadpool forms the team X-Force to protect a young mutant from the time-traveling soldier Cable.
Plans for a sequel to Deadpool began before that film's release, and were confirmed in February 2016. Though the original creative team of Reynolds, Reese, Wernick, and director Tim Miller were quickly set to return for the second film, Miller left the project in October 2016 due to creative differences with Reynolds and was soon replaced by Leitch. An extensive casting search took place to fill the role of Cable, with Brolin ultimately cast. Filming took place in British Columbia, Canada, from June to October 2017. During filming, stunt woman Joi "SJ" Harris died in a motorcycle accident; the film is dedicated to her memory. The film's score is the first to receive a parental advisory warning for explicit content, and the soundtrack also includes the original song "Ashes" by Céline Dion.
Deadpool 2 was released in the United States on May 18, 2018. It has grossed $734 million worldwide, making it the fifth highest-grossing film of 2018, as well as the third highest-grossing R-rated film and the third highest-grossing X-Men film. It received positive reviews from critics, who praised its humor, performances (particularly Reynolds, Brolin, and Beetz), story, action sequences, and the mid-credit sequences, with some calling it better than the first film, although a feeling of cynicism drew some criticism. An extended cut of the film was released later in 2018. A sequel, Deadpool 3, is in development.