Destiny 2 is an online-only multiplayer first-person shooter video game developed by Bungie and published by Activision. It was released for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on September 6, 2017, followed by a Microsoft Windows version the following month. It is the sequel to 2014's Destiny and its subsequent expansions. Set in a "mythic science fiction" world, the game features a multiplayer "shared-world" environment with elements of role-playing games, such as live events. Players assume the role of a Guardian, protectors of Earth's last safe city as they wield a power called Light to protect the Last City from different alien races. One of these races, the Cabal, led by the warlord Dominus Ghaul, infiltrate the Last City and strips all Guardians of their Light. The player sets out on a journey to regain their Light and find a way to defeat Ghaul and his Red Legion army and take back the Last City.
Like the original, activities in Destiny 2 are divided among player versus environment (PvE) and player versus player (PvP) game types. In addition to normal story missions, PvE features three-player "strikes" and six-player raids. A free roam patrol mode is also available for each planet and features public events as well as new activities not featured in the original. These new activities have an emphasis on exploration of the planets and interactions with non-player characters (NPCs) on the planets; the original Destiny only featured NPCs in social spaces. PvP features objective-based modes, as well as traditional deathmatch game modes. All PvP game modes are four-versus-four, a change from the previous installment, which featured six-versus-six, three-versus-three, and two-versus-two variants. Like the original Destiny, the game features expansion packs which further the story and adds new content and missions. The first expansion, Curse of Osiris, released in December 2017, while a second, Warmind, released in May 2018. A third, large expansion, Forsaken, will release in September 2018, beginning Year 2.
Upon release, Destiny 2 received generally favorable reviews from critics. The game received praise for its many improvements over its predecessor. The original Destiny received much criticism for its story, but Destiny 2 was praised as having a "more robust story" and an actual fleshed out villain. As with the original, gameplay for the most part was also highly praised. Reviews were split on the recategorization of the weapons and the newer activities like the Adventures and Lost Sectors, but praise was unanimous on the exploration of the game world. Changes to PvP were welcomed by some reviewers, though others were critical for the mode lacking player choice. Destiny 2 was nominated for and won various awards, such as at The Game Awards 2017 and Game Critics Awards.