Diwali or Deepavali is a Hindu festival of lights celebrated every year in autumn in the northern hemisphere (spring in southern hemisphere). One of the most popular festivals of Hinduism, it spiritually signifies the victory of light over darkness, good over evil and knowledge over ignorance. Its celebration includes millions of lights shining on housetops, outside doors and windows, around temples and other buildings in the communities where it is observed. The festival preparations and rituals typically extend over a five day period, while the main Diwali is observed on the third day and the darkest night of the Hindu Lunisolar month Kartika. The festival falls between mid-October and mid-November in the Gregorian calendar.Before Diwali, people clean, renovate, and decorate their homes and offices. For the main Diwali evening, people dress up in new clothes or their best outfits, light up diyas (lamps and candles) inside and outside their home, participate in family puja (prayers) to Lakshmi – the goddess of prosperity, light fireworks, enjoy family feasts, share mithai (sweets), and give gifts. Diwali also marks a major period for cultural bonding and shopping in India, Nepal and for the Indian diaspora elsewhere.The festival originated in the Indian subcontinent and is mentioned in early Sanskrit texts. The name of festive days, as well as the rituals of Diwali, vary significantly among Hindus, based on the region of India. The celebrations usually fall eighteen days after the Dussehra. In many parts of India, the festivities start on Dhanteras or equivalent which kicks off home cleaning and floor decorations such as the rangoli. The next day is Choti Diwali or equivalent in north India, while for south Indian Hindus it is the main Diwali. The western, central, eastern and northern Indian communities observe the main Diwali on the third day and the darkest night of the traditional month. The day after Diwali is marked, in some parts of India, with the Goverdhan Puja and Diwali Padva dedicated to the relationship between wife and husband. Some Hindu communities mark the last day as the Bhai Dooj dedicated to the bond between sister and brother, while other Hindu and Sikh craftsmen communities mark this day as Vishwakarma Puja by maintaining their workspace equipment, workshops and offering prayers.On the same night that Hindus celebrate Diwali, Jains too celebrate a festival called Diwali to mark the final liberation of Mahavira. Sikhs celebrate Bandi Chhor Divas to mark the release of Guru Hargobind from a Mughal Empire prison, while Newar Buddhists, unlike the majority of Buddhists, celebrate Diwali by worshipping Lakshmi. Diwali is an official holiday in Fiji, Guyana, India, Malaysia (except Sarawak), Mauritius, Myanmar, Nepal, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, and Jamaica.