Aubrey Drake Graham (born October 24, 1986) is a Canadian rapper, singer, songwriter, record producer, and actor. Drake first gained recognition as an actor on the teen drama television series Degrassi: The Next Generation in the early 2000s. Intent on pursuing a career as a rapper, he departed the series in 2007 following the release of his debut mixtape, Room for Improvement. He released two further independent projects, Comeback Season and So Far Gone, before signing to Lil Wayne's Young Money Entertainment in June 2009.His debut studio album, Thank Me Later (2010), debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200, and was subsequently certified platinum. His next two releases, 2011's Take Care and 2013's Nothing Was the Same, were both critically and commercially successful; the former earned him his first Grammy Award for Best Rap Album. In 2015, he released two mixtapes—the trap-influenced If You're Reading This It's Too Late and a collaboration with Future titled What a Time to Be Alive—both of which earned platinum certification in the U.S.His fourth album, Views (2016), broke several chart records. It became the first album by a male solo artist to remain atop the Billboard 200 for 13 nonconsecutive weeks in over 10 years. That year, Drake led both the Billboard Hot 100 and the Billboard 200 charts simultaneously for eight weeks. The album's second single, "One Dance", became his first number-one single as a lead artist. Views achieved quadruple platinum status in the US. Its lead single, "Hotline Bling", received Grammy Awards for Best Rap/Sung Performance and Best Rap Song. Described by Drake as a "playlist", his 2017 mixtape More Life became his seventh consecutive number one on the Billboard 200, and set multiple streaming records. His next release, the double album Scorpion (2018), also broke several streaming records, and housed the number-one singles "God's Plan", "Nice for What", and "In My Feelings". It also became the first album to spend five consecutive weeks at number one since Views.
Drake holds several Billboard chart records; he has the most charted songs (186) among solo artists in the history of the Billboard Hot 100, the most simultaneously charted Hot 100 songs in a single week (27), the most time on the Hot 100 (431 weeks), and the most Hot 100 debuts in a week (22). He also has the most number one singles on the Hot Rap Songs, Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Airplay and Rhythmic Charts. Drake has received many accolades, including three Grammy Awards, three Juno Awards, six American Music Awards, and thirteen Billboard Music Awards. He is the RIAA's top certified digital singles artist, having moved 142 million units of digital singles in the US. He is one of the best-selling music artists of the 21st century, with more than 10 million albums and 86 million singles global sales. In 2018, USA Today declared him the biggest artist of the year. As an entrepreneur, Drake founded the OVO Sound record label with longtime collaborator 40, as well as a radio program on Beats 1 and a clothing line, both utilizing using the "OVO" moniker.