Edmund Emil Kemper III (born December 18, 1948) is an American serial killer who murdered 10 people, including his paternal grandparents and mother. He regularly engaged in necrophilia and claimed to have consumed the flesh of at least one of his victims, but later retracted this confession.
Born in California, Kemper had a disturbed childhood. He moved to Montana with his abusive mother at a young age before returning to California, where he murdered his paternal grandparents when he was 15. He was subsequently diagnosed by court psychiatrists as suffering from paranoid schizophrenia and sentenced to the Atascadero State Hospital as a criminally insane juvenile.
During his time at Atascadero, young Ed was a model prisoner, even assisting in creating tests that the prison would use for psychological testing of the inmates.  During this time, Kemper managed to memorize the "correct" answers to at least 14 different tests, ensuring that he could easily test as a sane, healthy-minded, and well-adjusted young man.  Released at the age of 21 after convincing psychiatrists he was rehabilitated, Kemper was regarded as non-threatening by his victims. He targeted young female hitchhikers during his killing spree, luring them into his vehicle and driving them to secluded areas where he would murder them before taking their corpses back to his home to be decapitated, dismembered and violated; although Kemper preferred the term "humiliated" in regard to his post-mortem activities with the corpses. At the climax of his killing spree, Kemper murdered his mother and one of her friends before turning himself in to the authorities. Found sane and guilty at his trial in 1973, he requested the death penalty for his crimes. However, capital punishment was temporarily suspended in California at the time, and he instead received eight life sentences, which would run concurrently. Since then, Kemper has been incarcerated in the California Medical Facility.
Kemper is known for his large stature and high intelligence, standing 6 feet 9 inches (2.06 m) tall, weighing over 250 pounds (113 kg) and having a reported IQ of 145, characteristics that left his victims with little chance to overcome him.