Elementary is an American procedural drama series that presents a contemporary update of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's character Sherlock Holmes. The series was created by Robert Doherty and stars Jonny Lee Miller as Sherlock Holmes and Lucy Liu as Dr. Joan Watson. The series premiered on CBS on September 27, 2012. The series is set and filmed primarily in New York City.The show follows Holmes, a recovering drug addict and former consultant to Scotland Yard, as he assists the New York City Police Department in solving crimes. His indifference to police procedure often leads to conflict with Captain Thomas Gregson (Aidan Quinn), although the two still remain respectful of one another. He is accompanied by Dr. Joan Watson (Lucy Liu), who initially acts as his sober companion. She is a former surgeon and was hired by Sherlock's father to help him in his rehabilitation. They eventually begin to work together on his cases, and she becomes Holmes' apprentice and then partner. The series also features Holmes' ongoing conflict with his nemesis Jamie Moriarty (Natalie Dormer). Other supporting roles include Jon Michael Hill as Detective Marcus Bell, Rhys Ifans as Sherlock's brother, Mycroft Holmes, and John Noble as Sherlock's father, Morland Holmes.
Before the series premiered, it was met with some criticism given it followed closely on the heels of the BBC's modern adaptation Sherlock. After the premiere, it was picked up for a full season and later an extra two episodes. The season two premiere was partly filmed on location in London. The series has since been well received by critics, who have praised the performances, writing, novel approach to the source material, and fresh modern twist detailed throughout the shows New York based adaptation down to the size of the brownstone first seen in the series premiere. On March 25, 2016, CBS renewed the series for a fifth season, which premiered on October 2, 2016. On May 13, 2017, CBS renewed the series for a sixth season. On November 29, 2017, CBS ordered an additional eight episodes bringing the sixth season total up to 21. It premiered on April 30, 2018. On May 12, 2018, CBS renewed the series for a seventh season.