The Eurovision Song Contest 2017 was the 62nd edition of the annual Eurovision Song Contest. It took place in Kiev, Ukraine, following Jamala's win at the 2016 contest in Stockholm, Sweden with the song "1944". This was the second time the contest took place in Kiev, after 2005, as well as the fourth Eurovision event, after the Junior Eurovision Song Contest in 2009 and 2013. The contest was held at the International Exhibition Centre and consisted of two semi-finals on 9 and 11 May, and the final on 13 May 2017. All three live shows were hosted by Oleksandr Skichko, Volodymyr Ostapchuk and Timur Miroshnychenko.
Forty-two countries participated in the contest. Portugal and Romania returned to the contest after a year's absence, while Bosnia and Herzegovina withdrew on financial grounds. Russia had originally planned to participate, but announced their withdrawal on 13 April 2017, after their representative, Julia Samoylova, was banned from entering Ukraine by virtue of having travelled directly from Russia to Crimea in 2015, a region that was annexed by Russia in 2014, to give a performance, which is illegal under Ukrainian law.
The winner was Portugal with the song "Amar pelos dois" (Loving For Both of Us), performed by Salvador Sobral and written by his sister Luísa Sobral. This was Portugal's first win – and first top five placing – in 53 years of participation, the longest winless run by a country in Eurovision history. It was also the first winning song entirely performed in a country's native language since Serbia's "Molitva" in 2007, and the first winner written in triple metre since Ireland's "The Voice" in 1996. Additionally, this was the second consecutive year in which a returning country won the contest following Ukraine's victory in 2016. The top three countries – Portugal, Bulgaria and Moldova – achieved the highest placing in their Eurovision history, while host country Ukraine received its worst placing to date in a Eurovision final. Out of the "Big Five" countries, only Italy, the pre-contest favourite, finished in the top ten, coming sixth. The EBU reported that 182 million viewers worldwide watched the contest, 22 million fewer than the 2016 record.