Francesca "Frankie" Bridge (née Sandford, born 14 January 1989) is an English singer-songwriter, formerly a member of S Club 8 and a member of girl group The Saturdays, signed to the Fascination and Polydor labels. Bridge began her career when she auditioned for Simon Fuller's reality television competition, S Club Search in 2001, broadcast on CBBC. Bridge successfully auditioned and won a place in the pop group S Club Juniors. Bridge and the rest of the group then starred in their own reality TV show, S Club Junior: The Story. Together with the band, Bridge successfully released seven singles and two albums. While in the group, Bridge starred in S Club 7's TV show, Viva S Club. The group then began featuring in their own Children's musical television program, I Dream. Bridge played a main role in the show and went onto release solo single "Dreaming".
In 2007, Bridge went on to successfully audition for girlband, The Saturdays. The group were immediately signed to Polydor and Fascination Records and later gained a record deal with Geffen Records after having huge success in the United Kingdom. Bridge and the rest of the group later signed a deal with Island Def Jam Records and Mercury Records worth $1.5 million to distribute their music in the United States, which led to her first UK number-one single "What About Us". Throughout Bridge's time in the music industry, she has achieved nineteen UK Top 10 Singles and six UK Top 10 Albums. In late 2017, Bridge decided to pursue a solo career in music, signing a record deal with both Polydor and Fascination Records, the labels Bridge has been signed to since she was eleven-years-old. Her debut solo album is expected to be released in 2019. Bridge's sixteen years in the music industry has led her to sell an estimated 10 million records worldwide.Bridge gained higher prominence as a style icon in the UK, and her signature style short hair started a trend around the UK. She has had a successful career in television as well as performing, she has been a part of two reality television series of her own: The Saturdays: 24/7 and Chasing The Saturdays. She was also involved in Ghosthunting With... The Saturdays in 2010. In 2014, Bridge took part in the Twelfth series of Strictly Come Dancing where she was the runner-up of the series and in 2017 she began presenting Cannonball. She has been married to Wayne Bridge since 2014, and together, the couple have two sons. As of 2017, Bridge's net worth stands at £9 million, the highest of all the members of The Saturdays.