Freddie Steinmark (January 27, 1949 – June 6, 1971) was an American college football player. He played at the position of safety for the University of Texas Longhorns.Freddie Joe Steinmark was one of few football players who loved everything about the game. Football was in his heart and soul. Freddie led his high school team to remarkable victories that reclaimed the spirits of people in his small town in Colorado. Freddie, however, was concerned that he had not received a Division I scholarship offer yet. He had unlimited potential and anyone could see that, but the fact of the matter was that Freddie was just too small. His dream school, Notre Dame, rejected him for that very reason. Although it was disappointing, Freddie never let the anxiety of the future get to him. All his life he worked hard and maintained determination and he was not going to let obstacles steer him from his morals. Freddie’s chance finally arrived when Coats reached out to Mike Campbell, the defensive coordinator for the University of Texas. Campbell was interested in Freddie and his two hundred pound teammate, Bobby Mitchell. UT was not only interested in Freddie because of his outstanding records, but also because he was a scholar. Freddie had always taken his studies seriously and that impressed many observers. Freddie signed to UT along with Bobby. At the same time the Cincinnati Reds expressed interest in Freddie playing for them. His heart was set on Texas football, so he never seriously considered the offer. When Freddie got to UT he had a curious mind about the school’s history and read what he could. His father had taught him to be an active learner rather than an observer and Freddie took that lesson to heart. He thrived on this relationship between the world and himself, a relationship that Freddie applied to many aspects of his life. Freddie’s personality was another trademark characteristic that he possessed. Besides all of his talent on the field and in the classroom, Freddie was a genuinely good person. He was confident, but never arrogant and he was very polite.When football season was over Freddie would play baseball to stay in shape and because he had a passion for that game as well. He said the smoothness of the sport was a nice contrast to the roughness of football. The University of Texas was one of few schools at the time that encouraged their athletes to participate in more than one sport. This was an aspect of UT life that Freddie admired. At UT with him was Linda, Freddie’s high school sweetheart. To his parents disapproval Freddie and Linda embarked on the new college journey together. Fred was worried that Linda might distract Freddie from his studies and from the game, but that did not prove to be a problem. They both maintained high academic standings and Freddie hardly disappointed on the field.