George Washington (February 22, 1732 – December 14, 1799) was the first President of the United States, a soldier, farmer, land investor, and statesman. Since the late 1780s,  Washington has been known as the "Father of His Country" by compatriots. He was commander-in-chief of the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War and presided over the 1787 Constitutional Convention. As a leading Patriot, Washington was among the nation's Founding Fathers.
Washington was born to a moderately prosperous family of planters, who owned slaves in colonial Virginia. He had early opportunities in education, learned mathematics and quickly launched a successful career as a surveyor. He joined the Virginia militia and fought in the French and Indian War. The Second Continental Congress made him commander-in-chief of the Continental Army in 1775. Washington's strategy and command of the army combined with a French alliance led to the surrender of the British during the Siege of Yorktown. Later, he also fought against the Iroquois nation, a British ally. His devotion to American Republicanism impelled him to decline further power after victory, and he resigned as commander-in-chief in 1783. He was unanimously chosen to lead the Constitutional Convention in 1787 which devised the new Federal government.
Washington was unanimously elected as President by the Electoral College in the first two national elections. He promoted and oversaw the implementation of a strong, well-financed national government. He remained impartial in the fierce rivalry between two cabinet secretaries, Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton, though he adopted Hamilton's economic plans. In 1793, Washington sided with the interests of southern slaveholders, and signed into law the Fugitive Slave Act. When the French Revolution plunged Europe into war, Washington assumed a policy of neutrality to protect American ships—although the controversial Jay Treaty of 1795 created an alliance with Great Britain. He set precedents still in use today, such as the Cabinet advisory system, the inaugural address, the title "Mr. President", and a two-term limit. In his Farewell Address he gave a primer on civic virtue, warning of partisanship, sectionalism, and involvement in foreign wars.
After inheriting slaves at age eleven, Washington prospered through slavery most of his life but eventually became troubled with its practice; in his 1799 will he freed all his slaves. Washington is renowned for his religious toleration; his personal religion and devotion to Freemasonry have been debated. Upon his death, he was famously eulogized as "first in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen". Scholarly and public polling ranks him among the top three Presidents in history, and he is honored by numerous monuments, public works, place names, stamps, and currency.