God of War is a mythology-based action-adventure hack and slash video game franchise. Created by David Jaffe at Sony's Santa Monica Studio, the series debuted in 2005 on the PlayStation 2 (PS2) video game console, and has become a flagship title for the PlayStation brand, consisting of eight games across multiple platforms. The story is about Kratos, a Spartan warrior tricked into killing his wife and daughter by his former master, the Greek God of War Ares. Kratos kills Ares and becomes the new God of War, but is still haunted by the nightmares of his past. Revealed to be the son of Zeus, who later betrays Kratos, the Spartan then seeks revenge against the Olympian gods for their machinations. After destroying the Greek pantheon, Kratos ends up in the world of the Norse gods. He and his young son, Atreus, set out on a journey to fulfill his recently deceased second wife's last wish, which is to spread her ashes at the highest peak of the nine realms.
Santa Monica has developed all main entries, while Ready at Dawn and Javaground/Sony Online Entertainment-Los Angeles (SOE-LA) developed the three side games. Sony Interactive Entertainment (SIE; formerly Sony Computer Entertainment) has published all games except the mobile phone installment; it was published by Sony Pictures Digital. There are two eras in the God of War series. The first era are the first seven games, which are based on Greek mythology with vengeance as a central motif. God of War (2005), God of War II (2007), and God of War III (2010) comprise its main trilogy; the first two were released on the PS2 with the third on the PlayStation 3 (PS3). The fourth main installment, Ascension (2013), a prequel to the entire series, was also released for the PS3 and features multiplayer. The three side games include Chains of Olympus (2008) and Ghost of Sparta (2010) for the PlayStation Portable (PSP), and Betrayal (2007) for mobile phones that supported the Java Platform, Micro Edition (Java ME). The fifth main installment, also titled God of War (2018), was released for the PlayStation 4 (PS4). It began the second era, which takes the franchise to the world of Norse mythology. To go along with the new installment, Sony released a short prequel story, A Call from the Wilds (2018), as a text-based game through Facebook Messenger.
In addition to the individual games, two collections featuring remastered versions of both PS2 installments, God of War Collection (2009), and both PSP installments, Origins Collection (2011), were released on the PS3 by Bluepoint Games and Ready at Dawn, respectively. Another collection, God of War Saga (2012), was also released for the PS3 and features God of War Collection, Origins Collection, and God of War III. Sanzaru Games ported God of War Collection to the PlayStation Vita in 2014. In celebration of the franchise's tenth anniversary, God of War III Remastered was released on PS4 in 2015 and was ported by Wholesale Algorithms.
Games in the series have been praised as some of the best action games of all time. In June 2012, Sony reported that the series had sold more than 21 million copies worldwide. Strong sales and support of the series led to the franchise's expansion into other media, such as three comic book series and two novels. A film adaptation of the original installment has been in development since 2005. Merchandise includes artwork, clothing, toys, and prop replicas, as well as the games' soundtracks, including a heavy metal album, Blood & Metal (2010), featuring original music by various bands who were inspired by the series.