The Great Famine (Irish: an Gorta Mór, [anˠ ˈgɔɾˠt̪ˠa mˠoːɾˠ]) or the Great Hunger was a period of mass starvation, disease, and emigration in Ireland between 1845 and 1849. With the greatest impacted areas to the west and south of Ireland, where the  Irish language was primarily spoken, the period was contemporaneously known as in Irish: An Drochshaol, loosely translated as the hard-times (or literally, "The Bad Life"). The worst year of the period, that of "Black 47", is known as Irish: Bliain an Drochshaoil.  During the famine, about one million people died and a million more emigrated from Ireland, causing the island's population to fall by between 20% and 25%.Sharing much in common with the similar famines in India under British rule, the proximate cause of the famine was a natural event, a potato blight, which infected potato crops throughout Europe during the 1840s. The event is sometimes referred to as the Irish Potato Famine, mostly outside Ireland.The famine was a watershed in the history of Ireland, which was then part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. The famine and its effects permanently changed the island's demographic, political, and cultural landscape, producing an estimated two million refugees and spurring a century-long population decline. For both the native Irish and those in the resulting diaspora, the famine entered folk memory. The already strained relations between many Irish and the British Crown soured further, heightening  ethnic and sectarian tensions, and boosting Irish nationalism and republicanism in Ireland and among Irish emigrants in the United States and elsewhere. The potato blight would return in 1879 though by then the labourers of Ireland had begun the "Land War", a movement organized by the Land League, that continued the political campaign for the  Tenant Right League's 1850 issued Three Fs. The League boycotted "notorious landlords" and members physically blocked evictions of farmers in 1879, limiting the severity of the following famine.