Groundhog Day (Pennsylvania German: Grund'sau dåk, Grundsaudaag, Grundsow Dawg, Murmeltiertag; Nova Scotia: Daks Day) is a popular tradition celebrated in the United States and Canada on February 2.  It derives from the Pennsylvania Dutch superstition that if a groundhog (Deitsch: Grundsau, Grunddax, Dax) emerging from its burrow on this day sees a shadow due to clear weather, it will retreat to its den and winter will persist for six more weeks, and if it does not see its shadow because of cloudiness, spring will arrive early. While the tradition remains popular in modern times, studies have found no consistent correlation between a groundhog seeing its shadow or not and the subsequent arrival time of spring-like weather.The weather lore was brought from German-speaking areas where the badger (German: dachs) is the forecasting animal. This appears to be an enhanced version of ancient bear lore. 
Anciently, the bear was worshiped throughout most  of the northern hemisphere with the bear being viewed as a controller of the weather. Further, actual bears were seen as living embodiments of the creator/weather deity and as such, bears (& by further extension the badger or groundhog) were  viewed as a prophet of the seasons with the bear's reappearance  fortelling the return of spring.
Ancient Europeans believed that if Father Bear, who had just emerged from his sleep of death, was able to see clear weather (around the Catholic religious day of Candlemas which occurred six weeks after the longest period of darkness, that Father Bear would return to his den for another six weeks of prolonged winter.
The Groundhog Day ceremony held at Punxsutawney in western Pennsylvania, centering around a semi-mythical groundhog named Punxsutawney Phil, has become the most attended. Grundsow Lodges in Pennsylvania Dutch Country in the southeast part of the state celebrate them as well. Other cities in the United States and Canada have also adopted the event.
The 1993 film Groundhog Day helped boost recognition of the custom, and the celebration has spread even further afield. In 2009, Quebec began to mark the day (Canadian French: Jour de la Marmotte) with its own groundhog.