The Henderson Brooks-Bhagat report is the report of an analysis (referred to in the report as an "Operations Review") of the events leading up to the Sino-Indian War of 1962. Its authors are officers of the Indian armed forces. They are Lieutenant-General T.B. Henderson Brooks and Brigadier Premindra Singh Bhagat, Victoria Cross recipient and commandant of the Indian Military Academy at the time.
As of 2006, more than fifty years after its having been promulgated, the report was to remain classified by order of the UPA government led by the Indian National Congress. In April 2010, India's Defence Minister A.K. Antony told Parliament that the report could not be declassified because its contents "are not only extremely sensitive but are of current operational value." This statement was criticised by BJP leaders including Arun Jaitley who even penned a blog post on it . After May 2014, when BJP led government came to power, the newly appointed Defence Minister Arun Jaitley refused to declassify the report. Jaitley removed his blog post and also agreed that the Brooks report could not be declassified.The report is said to be openly critical of the Indian political and military structure of the time, as well as of the execution of operations. According to Australian journalist Neville Maxwell, the report says that the Indian government, which was keen to recover territory, advocated a cautious policy; whilst the Army Headquarters dictated a policy that was militarily unsound.On 17 March 2014, Neville Maxwell posted Volume 1 of the two-volume report on his website. Maxwell had acquired a copy of the report and wrote his book India's China War based on it. In an interview, Maxwell says he has never seen Volume 2, but understands it to be "mainly memos, written statements and other documents on which the authors based the report".Some analysts argue that continuing public controversy over the report indicates that many of the problems identified in the report continue today.On 15 November 2014, Congress leader Captain Amarinder Singh said the report should be made public by the Narendra Modi led administration.