If I Did It, retitled If I Did It: Confessions of the Killer in later issues, is a book by ghostwriter Pablo Fenjves and by O. J. Simpson, in which Simpson puts forth a "hypothetical" description of the murders of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman. Simpson's former manager, Norman Pardo, claimed that Simpson was not involved in writing the book, but rather accepted, against Pardo's advice, $600,000 from the ReganBooks and News Corporation to say he had written it and to conduct an interview.Simpson was acquitted of the murders in a criminal trial (California v. Simpson) but later was found financially liable in a civil trial. Although the original release of the book was cancelled shortly after it was announced in November 2006, 400,000 physical copies of the original book were printed, and by June 2007, copies of it had been leaked online.The book was originally due to be published by ReganBooks, an imprint of HarperCollins, which was headed by editor and publisher Judith Regan. The television network Fox, which was a sister to HarperCollins via News Corporation at the time, was to also broadcast an interview special with Simpson to promote the book, entitled O. J. Simpson: If I Did It, Here's How It Happened. However, following objections to the special by several Fox station owners, the special was also canceled. Footage from the interview was aired for the first time during a subsequent Fox special, O. J. Simpson: The Lost Confession?, which aired in March 2018.
In August 2007, a Florida bankruptcy court awarded the rights to the book to the Goldman family to partially satisfy the civil judgment. The book's title was changed to If I Did It: Confessions of the Killer, and this version was published by Beaufort Books, a New York City publishing house owned by parent company Kampmann & Company/Midpoint Trade Books. Comments were added to the original manuscript by the Goldman family, Fenjves, and journalist Dominick Dunne. The new cover design printed the word "If" greatly reduced in size compared with the other words, and placed inside the word "I".