Incredibles 2 is a 2018 American 3D computer-animated superhero film produced by Pixar Animation Studios and released by Walt Disney Pictures. Written and directed by Brad Bird, it is the sequel to 2004's The Incredibles and second installment of the franchise. The plot picks up directly after the events of the first film and follows the Parr family as they balance regaining the public's trust of superheroes with their civilian family life, only to combat a new foe who seeks to turn the populace against all supers. The voice cast includes Craig T. Nelson, Holly Hunter, Sarah Vowell and Samuel L. Jackson, who reprise their roles from the first film, while newcomers to the cast include Huckleberry Milner (replacing Spencer Fox), Bob Odenkirk, Catherine Keener and Jonathan Banks (replacing Bud Luckey). The film's score was composed by Michael Giacchino, who had worked on the music for the previous film.
Following the success of The Incredibles, Bird expressed an interest in making a sequel, but held off development to direct and contribute to the production of other films. When it was confirmed in March 2014 that the sequel was in the works, Bird faced multiple challenges crafting the film, such as finding a way to distinguish the script from other films and television series produced within the superhero genre since the first film's release, as well as finding replacements for actors who portrayed several characters in the original. The film is dedicated to the memory of Pixar animator and voice actor Bud Luckey, who died in February 2018.
Incredibles 2 premiered in Los Angeles on June 5, 2018, and it was theatrically released in the United States on June 15, 2018, in Disney Digital 3-D, Dolby Cinema and IMAX. The film received largely positive reviews from critics, who praised its animation, voice acting, humor, action sequences, and musical score, although some criticism was aimed at the story for being derivative of its predecessor. The film made $182.7 million in its opening weekend, setting the record for best debut for an animated film, and has grossed over $1.1 billion worldwide, making it the fourth highest-grossing film of 2018, as well as the third highest-grossing animated film of all-time and the 19th highest overall.