Jessica Phyllis Lange (; born April 20, 1949) is an American film, television and theatre actress. She is the recipient of several awards, including two Academy Awards, one Tony Award, three Emmy Awards, five Golden Globe Awards, one Critics Choice Award, one Screen Actors Guild Award, and three Dorian Awards. In 1998, Entertainment Weekly listed Lange among the 25 Greatest Actresses of the 1990s.  In 2016, Lange became the twenty-second thespian to achieve the Triple Crown of Acting.Lange was discovered by producer Dino De Laurentiis while modeling part-time for the Wilhelmina modelling agency. She made her professional film debut in his 1976 remake of the 1933 action-adventure classic King Kong, for which she won her first Golden Globe Award. In 1982, she became the first performer in 40 years to receive two Oscar nominations within the same year; she won her second Golden Globe Award and the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her role as a soap opera star in Tootsie, and was also nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress for her portrayal of the troubled actress Frances Farmer, in Frances. Lange received three more nominations for Country (1984), Sweet Dreams (1985) and Music Box (1989), before winning her third Golden Globe Award, and the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance as a manic depressive housewife in Blue Sky (1994). In 1995, Lange became the second actress in Oscar history, after Meryl Streep, to win Best Actress after winning Best Supporting Actress; an achievement that was not repeated until nearly 20 years later by Cate Blanchett.
In 2010, she won her first Primetime Emmy Award for her portrayal of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis' famed aunt, Big Edie, in HBO's Grey Gardens (2009). Between 2011 and 2014, she won her first Screen Actors Guild Award, fifth Golden Globe Award, and second and third Emmy Awards for her performances in the first and third seasons of FX's horror anthology series American Horror Story (2011–2015). In 2016, Lange won her first Tony Award for Best Performance by a Leading Actress in a Play, an Outer Critics Circle Award for Best Lead Actress in a Play and a Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Actress in a Play for her critically acclaimed performance in the Broadway revival of Long Day's Journey into Night. and starred in a supporting role in Louie C.K.'s  dramedy web series Horace and Pete. In 2017, she received acclaim for her leading role as Joan Crawford on the television series Feud, opposite Susan Sarandon. In 2018, Lange will be reprising her role of Constance Langdon in the eight installment of American Horror Story, her return to the series received widespread media attention leading to the announcement trending worldwide on Twitter. 
In addition to acting, Lange is a photographer with three published works. She has also been a foster parent and currently holds a Goodwill Ambassador position for UNICEF, specializing in HIV/AIDS in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in Russia.