Joanne is the fifth studio album by American singer Lady Gaga. It was released on October 21, 2016, by Streamline and Interscope Records. The album's production was led by Gaga with Mark Ronson and BloodPop, alongside a variety of collaborators including Kevin Parker, Emile Haynie, Jeff Bhasker and Josh Homme. The music of Joanne features "stripped-down" soft rock and dance-pop styles which put emphasis on the singer's vocal abilities. Lyrically, the album delves on the theme of family and life's emotions, with the death of Gaga's aunt, Joanne Stefani Germanotta, having a deep influence on the record.
The album era marked a change in Gaga's visual appearance, embodying a country-oriented look, consisting of a pink, wide-brimmed hat and usage of pastel colors, evoking 1970s. The singer's experience working on American Horror Story influenced the creative process of Joanne, and Gaga hearkened back to an authentic and simplistic presentation. In order to promote the record, three singles were released, "Perfect Illusion", "Million Reasons" and "Joanne". "Perfect Illusion" was released as the album's lead single on September 9, 2016, reaching number one in France and Spain, while "Million Reasons" reached number four in the United States. "Joanne" was later released to radio in selected territories, as the album's third and final single. The supporting Joanne World Tour started on August 1, 2017 and ended on February 1, 2018.
Joanne received generally positive reviews from music critics. Commercially, it became Gaga's fourth album to reach number one in the United States. It topped the charts in Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, and the international charts of Japan and Korea, while reaching the top ten in over 15 territories, and accumulated certifications in some of the nations. Joanne was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 60th Annual Grammy Awards. Many articles noted the impact of the album in the musical endeavors of artists like Kylie Minogue, Miley Cyrus, Kesha and Justin Timberlake, who all employed the stripped-down approach of Joanne, and the ushering of vocal talents to the forefront.