José Antonio Bautista Santos (born October 19, 1980) is a Dominican professional baseball right fielder and third baseman for the Philadelphia Phillies of Major League Baseball (MLB). He has also played in MLB for the Baltimore Orioles, Tampa Bay Devil Rays, Kansas City Royals, Pittsburgh Pirates, Toronto Blue Jays, Atlanta Braves, and New York Mets. His professional career began when the Pittsburgh Pirates selected him in the 20th round of the 2000 first year player draft. In 2010, Bautista became the 26th member of the 50 home run club while leading the major leagues in home runs for the first of two consecutive seasons and, from 2010–15, hit more home runs than any player in the major leagues.  An MLB All-Star selection six consecutive times, he has won three Silver Slugger Awards and two Hank Aaron Awards. In addition, he has received the American League Player of the Month Award five times and the Player of the Week four times. Before being traded to the Blue Jays, Bautista primarily played third base.
Although major league scouts initially noted Bautista while in junior college for his batting skills – including power hitting potential – and a strong throwing arm, his career took detours until realizing his potential in 2010. He made his MLB debut with the Baltimore Orioles in 2004, and, that year, became the first player ever to appear on five MLB rosters in one season. The last of those clubs were the Pirates, where he played at five different positions as a utility player until being traded to the Blue Jays in 2008. After making adjustments to his swing, Bautista broke through with ten home runs in September 2009. He has since been voted in the top ten in the AL Most Valuable Player Award four times and is a leader or among the top ten in numerous offensive single-season and career categories in Blue Jays' franchise history.Since 2010, Bautista has hit at least 20 home runs each year, and in four of those seasons, has hit at least 35 home runs, has both scored and driven in at least 100 runs, and has drawn at least 100 bases on balls, including twice leading the AL. In 2015, while playing in the playoffs for the first time, his bat flip in the American League Division Series caused a sensation that became a symbol of Toronto's first playoff appearance in 22 years. In 2011, he set up a program that assists athletes from the Dominican Republic to attend universities in the United States.