The Kansas Jayhawks men's basketball program is the intercollegiate men's basketball program of the University of Kansas. The program is classified in the NCAA's Division I and the team competes in the Big 12 Conference. Kansas is considered one of the most prestigious college basketball programs in the country with 3 NCAA Tournament championships and 5 overall national championships, as well being a National Runner-Up six times. Kansas is the all-time consecutive conference titles record holder with 14 consecutive titles, which is an active streak.
The Jayhawks' first coach was the inventor of the game, James Naismith. Naismith, coincidentally, is the only coach in Kansas basketball history with a losing record. The Kansas basketball program has produced many notable professional players, including Clyde Lovellette, Wilt Chamberlain, Jo Jo White, Danny Manning, Raef LaFrentz, Paul Pierce, Nick Collison, Kirk Hinrich, Mario Chalmers, Andrew Wiggins and Joel Embiid. Politician Bob Dole also played basketball at Kansas. Former students that have gone on to be coaches include Phog Allen, Adolph Rupp, John McLendon, Dean Smith, Dutch Lonborg, and former assistants to go on to be notable coaches include John Calipari, Gregg Popovich, and Bill Self. Mark Turgeon and Danny Manning are both former players and assitant coaches that became head coaches. Allen founded the National Association of Basketball Coaches and, with Lonborg, was an early proponent of the NCAA tournament.  Four different Jayhawk head coaches are in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame as coaches, Phog Allen, Larry Brown, Roy Williams, and current head coach Bill Self.
In 2008, ESPN ranked Kansas second on a list of the most prestigious programs of the modern college basketball era. Kansas currently has the longest streak of consecutive NCAA tournament appearances of all-time (29), the longest current streak of consecutive NCAA winning seasons (35), the most winning seasons in Division I history (97), the most non-losing seasons (.500 or better) in NCAA history (100), the most conference championships in Division I history (61), the most consecutive regular season conference titles in Division I (14), the most First Team All Americans in Division I history (22), and the most First Team All American Selections in Division I history (29). As of the last complete season, the program ranks third in Division I all-time winning percentage (.725) and second in Division I all-time wins (2,217). 
Since the opening of Allen Fieldhouse in 1955, the Jayhawks have earned a well established home court advantage. Allen Fieldhouse is often considered one of the best home court advantages in college basketball. The Jayhawks have won over 70 percent of their games in Allen Fieldhouse, losing only a little over 100 games in its over 60 year history. Under current head coach Bill Self, the Jayhawks have had three home court winning streaks over 30 games and two streaks that have reached over 50 games.