The Kree, briefly known as the Ruul, are a fictional scientifically and technologically advanced militaristic alien race appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. They are native to the planet Hala in the Large Magellanic Cloud.
The Kree race resembles humans in appearance except for the fact that a portion of the Kree race have blue skin. Due to the difference in gravity and chemical composition of the air between their homeworld Hala and Earth, Krees have a greater strength on Earth than humans but are not able to breathe the air on Earth without some sort of aid. In the Kree race there is a distinction between the blue-skinned "purebred" Krees and their white-skinned members, with the blue-skinned Kree being a small but powerful minority. At some point in the past the Kree race's evolution was "frozen" which has led to Kree scientists experimenting with genetics and interbreeding with other races to help counter the lack of genetic evolution in the Kree race itself. These experiments led to the creation of the Inhumans on Earth.
The Kree race first becomes known to modern day Earth as part of the Kree–Skrull War, an interstellar war between the Kree Empire and the neighboring Skrull empire, that would involve the Avengers as the Kree and the Skrull fought over control of Earth. The war was ended through the machinations of the Kree Supreme Intelligence and Rick Jones although skirmishes between the two empires continued.
At a later date the Kree became embroiled in a war with the Shi'ar empire, another space faring empire. The war ended with the detonation of the Nega Bomb that forced the Kree to surrender. It was later revealed that the Nega bomb was engineered by the Kree Supreme Intelligence to attempt to restart their genetic evolution. At a later date Black Bolt led the Inhumans into Kree space and became the King of the Kree empire, making the Inhumans the Royal Family of the Kree. Later on the Supreme Intelligence and Ronan the Accuser are shown as the leaders of the Kree Empire.
The Kree race has produced a number of notable Marvel comic characters over the years, some heroes, others villains such as the original Captain Marvel, Supreme Intelligence, Ronan the Accuser, Captain Atlas, Korath the Pursuer, Doctor Minerva, and Yon-Rogg. They were also represented by Kree hybrids such as Carol Danvers, Genis-Vell, Phyla-Vell, Hulkling, and Ultra Girl.