Lemonade is the sixth solo album by American recording artist Beyoncé, released on April 23, 2016, by Parkwood Entertainment and Columbia Records. It was her second "visual album" following her 2013 eponymous fifth album, and is a concept album accompanied upon its release by a sixty-five minute film aired on HBO. Primarily an R&B album, Lemonade encompasses a variety of genres, including pop, reggae, blues, rock, hip hop, soul, funk, Americana, country, gospel, electronic, and trap music. It features guest vocals from James Blake, Kendrick Lamar, The Weeknd, and Jack White, and contains samples and interpolations of a number of hip hop and rock songs.Lemonade was made available for online streaming on April 23, 2016 through Beyoncé's co-owned streaming service Tidal, and was released for paid purchase the following day and at physical retailers on May 6. The album debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200, selling 485,000 copies in its first week of sales (653,000 with additional album-equivalent units) and earning Beyoncé her sixth consecutive number-one album on the chart. As of December 2016, Lemonade has sold over 1.5 million copies in the United States, making it the third best-selling album of the year in the US. It was also the best-selling album of 2016, according to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), for 2.5 million copies shipped globally.It was supported by five singles: "Formation", "Sorry", "Hold Up", "Freedom" featuring Kendrick Lamar, and "All Night"; "Daddy Lessons" featuring the Dixie Chicks was also released as a promotional single. The album appeared on several music publications' year-end lists, with Rolling Stone listing it at number one. In April 2016, Beyoncé embarked on The Formation World Tour to promote the album, an all-stadium tour visiting North America and Europe which finished as the year's second highest-grossing tour.
Lemonade was nominated for nine awards at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards in 2017, ultimately winning Grammy Awards for Best Urban Contemporary Album and Best Music Video. "Formation" received nominations for Record of the Year, Song of the Year, and Best Music Video, while "Hold Up", "Don't Hurt Yourself", and "Freedom" were nominated in pop, rock, and rap categories, respectively. The album won a Peabody Award in the Entertainment category, and Metacritic named it the second most critically acclaimed album of 2016, and it is the site's eighteenth highest-rated album of all time. On July 24, 2017, Lemonade was listed as the sixth greatest album made by a woman of all time by NPR.