The Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) television series are American superhero television shows based on characters that appear in publications by Marvel Comics. The shows have been in production since 2013, and in that time Marvel Television and ABC Studios, along with its production division ABC Signature Studios, have premiered 11 series, with at least three more in various stages of development, across broadcast, streaming, and cable television on ABC, Netflix and Hulu, and Freeform, respectively. The ABC series have averaged around 4–8 million viewers a season, with many of the MCU series receiving strong critical responses.
The first series in the universe, Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., began airing on ABC during the 2013–14 television season, and was joined by Marvel's Agent Carter in the 2014–15 television season. Marvel formed a unique partnership with IMAX Corporation to premiere Marvel's Inhumans in IMAX theaters in September 2017 before airing on ABC during the 2017–18 television season; a put pilot for another ABC series, Marvel's Damage Control, has also been ordered. Netflix's Marvel series began in 2015 with Marvel's Daredevil and Marvel's Jessica Jones, followed by Marvel's Luke Cage in 2016. Marvel's Iron Fist, the crossover miniseries Marvel's The Defenders, and Marvel's The Punisher released in 2017. Additionally, the MCU expanded to Hulu with Marvel's Runaways in 2017, and to Freeform with Marvel's Cloak & Dagger in 2018. Marvel's New Warriors is also scheduled to air in 2018, despite not having a broadcaster.
Starring in the series are Clark Gregg as Phil Coulson, in Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., and Hayley Atwell as Peggy Carter, in Agent Carter, both reprising their roles from MCU films, while Anson Mount headlines Inhumans as Black Bolt. Daredevil introduces Charlie Cox in the title role of Matt Murdock / Daredevil as well as Jon Bernthal as the Punisher in its second season, who reprises his role as the star of The Punisher. Jessica Jones introduces Krysten Ritter as Jessica Jones and Mike Colter as Luke Cage, with the latter also headlining Luke Cage. Finn Jones stars as Danny Rand / Iron Fist in Iron Fist, and joins Cox, Ritter, and Colter for The Defenders. The Runaways cast consists of the titular group, including Rhenzy Feliz as Alex Wilder, and their parents, including Ryan Sands as Geoffrey Wilder. Olivia Holt and Aubrey Joseph star in Cloak & Dagger as Tandy Bowen / Dagger and Tyrone Johnson / Cloak, respectively, while Milana Vayntrub and Derek Theler lead New Warriors as Doreen Green / Squirrel Girl and Craig Hollis / Mister Immortal, respectively.