Adventure Time is an American animated television series created by Pendleton Ward for Cartoon Network. The series follows the adventures of Finn (voiced by Jeremy Shada), a human boy, and his best friend and adoptive brother Jake (voiced by John DiMaggio), a dog with magical powers to change shape and grow and shrink at will. Finn and Jake live in the post-apocalyptic Land of Ooo. Throughout the series, they interact with the show's other main characters: Princess Bubblegum (voiced by Hynden Walch), the sovereign of the Candy Kingdom and a sentient piece of gum; the Ice King (voiced by Tom Kenny), a demented but largely misunderstood ice wizard; Marceline the Vampire Queen (voiced by Olivia Olson), a thousand-year-old vampire and rock music enthusiast; Lumpy Space Princess (voiced by Ward), a melodramatic and immature princess made out of "irradiated stardust"; BMO (voiced by Niki Yang), a sentient video game console-shaped robot that lives with Finn and Jake; and Flame Princess (voiced by Jessica DiCicco), a flame elemental and ruler of the Fire Kingdom. The pilot first aired in 2007 on Nicktoons Network, where it was later re-aired on the incubator series Random! Cartoons. The pilot eventually leaked onto the internet and became a cult hit on YouTube. After Nickelodeon declined to turn the short into a full-fledged show, Cartoon Network purchased the rights, and Adventure Time launched as a series on April 5, 2010.Each Adventure Time episode is about eleven minutes in length; pairs of episodes are often telecast in order to fill a half-hour program time slot. For the first five seasons, the show aired on Monday nights. However, starting with the early sixth-season episode "Breezy", the show began to shift both its timeslot and its day of airing. Ever since its debut, Adventure Time has been a ratings success for Cartoon Network, with the highest-rated episodes scoring over 3 million viewers. The show has received positive reviews from critics and has developed a strong following among teenagers and adults, many of whom are attracted due to the series' animation, stories, and characters. Adventure Time has won three Annie Awards, seven Primetime Emmy Awards, two British Academy Children's Awards, a Motion Picture Sound Editors Award, a Pixel Award, a Peabody Award, and a Kerrang! Award. The series has also been nominated for three Critics' Choice Television Awards, two Annecy Festival Awards, a TCA Award, and a Sundance Film Festival Award, among others. Domestically, several compilation DVDs containing a random assortment of episodes have been released; additionally, all the seasons have been released or are scheduled for release on DVD, and the first six have been released on Blu-ray. During its run, Adventure Time was produced by Cartoon Network Studios and Frederator Studios.