Attack on Titan is an anime series adapted from the manga of the same title by Hajime Isayama. It is set in a world where humanity lives inside cities surrounded by enormous walls due to the Titans, gigantic humanoid beings who devour humans seemingly without reason. The story follows the adventures of Eren Yeager, his adopted sister Mikasa Ackerman, and their friend Armin Arlert, whose lives are changed forever after a Colossal Titan breaches the wall of their home town. Vowing revenge and to reclaim the world from the Titans, Eren and his friends join the Scout Regiment, an elite group of soldiers who fight Titans.
Produced by IG Port's Wit Studio and directed by Tetsurō Araki, Attack on Titan was broadcast on the Mainichi Broadcasting System from April 7 to September 29, 2013, and later aired on Tokyo MX, FBS, TOS, HTB, TVA and BS11. Both Funimation and Crunchyroll have streamed the series with subtitles on their respective websites. Funimation has also licensed the anime for home video release in 2014. Episode 1 of the English version premiered at Anime Boston, with other episodes put on Funimation's subscription services. On television of the series has broadcast weekly on Adult Swim's Toonami block on May 3, 2014, starting at 11:30 p.m. EST.From episode 1 to 13, the anime's opening theme song is "Feuerroter Pfeil und Bogen" (紅蓮の弓矢, Guren no Yumiya, lit. "Crimson Bow and Arrow") by Linked Horizon and the ending theme song is "Utsukushiki Zankoku na Sekai" (美しき残酷な世界, lit. "A Beautiful Cruel World") by Yōko Hikasa. From episode 14 to 25, the anime's opening theme song is "Die Flügel der Freiheit" (自由の翼, Jiyū no Tsubasa, lit. "The Wings of Freedom") by Linked Horizon and the ending theme song is "great escape" by Cinema Staff. The opening themes were collected on Linked Horizon's single "Jiyū e no Shingeki" which sold over 100 thousand copies in its first week of sales.A second season aired from April 1 to June 17, 2017 on MBS and other television networks. Funimation and Crunchyroll streamed the second season on their respective websites, while Adult Swim aired a dubbed version. The opening theme song is "Opfert eure Herzen!" (心臓を捧げよ！, Shinzō o Sasageyo!, lit. "Dedicate Your Hearts!") by Linked Horizon and the ending theme song is "Yūgure no Tori" (夕暮れの鳥) by Shinsei Kamattechan.On June 17, 2017, a third season was announced at the close of the second season's final episode, with a release date slated for July 23, 2018. A trailer for the third season was released on April 27, 2018  along with confirmation for a 24-episode long season. Adult Swim will air the third season starting on August 18, 2018. The opening theme for the third season is "Red Swan" by Yoshiki featuring Hyde, and the ending theme song is "Akatsuki no Requiem" (暁の鎮魂歌, Akatsuki no Chinkonka, lit. "Daybreak Requiem") by Linked Horizon.