Dragon Ball Super is a Japanese anime television series produced by Toei Animation that began airing on July 5, 2015 on Fuji TV. It is the first Dragon Ball television series featuring a new storyline in 18 years. Storywise, the series retells the events of the last two Dragon Ball Z films, Battle of Gods and Resurrection 'F', which themselves follow the events of Dragon Ball Z. Afterward, the series proceeds to tell an original story about the exploration of other universes, the reemergence of Future Trunks, and new threats to the Future Earth known as Goku Black and a Supreme Kai from Universe 10 named Zamasu. Later on, Goku, Vegeta, Gohan, Krillin, Android 17, Android 18, Piccolo, Tien, Master Roshi, and a temporarily revived Frieza participate in a universal tournament held by Grand Zenō and Future Grand Zenō to decide the fate of multiple universes. If they lose in the universal tournament then Universe Seven will be erased by Grand Zenō and Future Grand Zenō.
Thirteen pieces of theme music are used: two opening themes and eleven ending themes. The first opening theme song for episodes 1 to 76 is "Chōzetsu Dynamic!" (超絶☆ダイナミック！, Chōzetsu Dainamikku, "Excellent Dynamic!") performed by Kazuya Yoshii of The Yellow Monkey. The lyrics were penned by Yukinojo Mori who has written numerous songs for the Dragon Ball series. The second opening theme song for episodes 77 to 131 is "Limit-Break x Survivor" (限界突破×サバイバー, Genkai Toppa x Sabaibā) by Kiyoshi Hikawa. Mori wrote the lyrics for the rock number "Genkai Toppa x Survivor". Takafumi Iwasaki composed the music. The first ending theme song for episodes 1 to 12 is "Hello Hello Hello" (ハローハローハロー, Harō Harō Harō) by Japanese rock band Good Morning America. The second ending theme song for episodes 13 to 25 is "Starring Star" (スターリングスター, Sutāringu Sutā) by Key Talk. The third ending theme song for episodes 26 to 36 is "Usubeni" (薄紅, "Light Pink") by Lacco Tower. The fourth ending theme song for episodes 37 to 49 is "Forever Dreaming" (フォーエバードリーミング, Fōebā Dorīmingu) by Czecho No Republic. The fifth ending theme song for episodes 50 to 59 is "Yokayoka Dance" (よかよかダンス, Yokayoka Dansu, "It's Fine Dance") by idol group Batten Showjo Tai. The sixth ending theme for episodes 60 to 72 is "Chao Han Music" (炒飯MUSIC, Chāhan Myūjikku) by Arukara. The seventh ending theme song for episodes 73 to 83 is "Aku no Tenshi to Seigi no Akuma" (悪の天使と正義の悪魔, An Evil Angel and the Righteous Devil) by THE COLLECTORS. The eighth ending theme song for episodes 84 to 96 is "Boogie Back" by Miyu Innoue. The ninth ending theme song for episodes 97 to 108 is "Haruka" by Lacco Tower. The tenth ending theme song for episodes 109 to 121 is "By A 70cm Square Window" by RottenGraffty. The eleventh ending theme song for episodes 122 to 131 is "Lagrima" by OnePixcel.The first series set was released on Japanese Blu-ray and DVD sets that contain twelve episodes each. The first set was released on December 2, 2015. The second set was released on March 2, 2016. The third set was released on July 2, 2016. The fourth set was released on October 10, 2016.Dragon Ball Super received an English-language dub that premiered on the Toonami channel in Southeast Asia in January 2017. The series has been aired in Israel on Nickelodeon and in Portugal on SIC. Toei Animation Europe announced that Dragon Ball Super would be broadcast in France, Italy, Spain, and English-speaking Africa in Fall 2016. An official English sub of the series would be simulcasted legally on Crunchyroll, Daisuki.net, and Anime Lab beginning October 22, 2016. Funimation announced the company acquired the rights to the series and will be producing an English dub. As well as officially announcing the dub, it was also announced they will be simulcasting the series on their streaming platform, FunimationNow. Funimation's English dub of Dragon Ball Super began airing on Adult Swim's Toonami block starting on January 7, 2017.