The Ryder Cup is a golf competition contested by teams from Europe and the United States. The competition was originally contested between Great Britain and the United States, Republic of Ireland golfers first played in the British team in 1953 and this was extended to golfers elsewhere in Europe in 1979. Established in 1927, the competition is jointly administered by the Professional Golfers' Association of America (PGA of America) and Ryder Cup Europe, a venture in which the PGA European Tour is the primary partner. The competition takes place every two years, with the exception of 2001 when the match was played a year later due to the 11 September attacks; the venue alternates between courses in Europe and the United States. The winners of the first match were the United States, who defeated Great Britain at Worcester Country Club 9½–2½. The most recent match, held at Hazeltine National Golf Club in Minnesota, was won by United States, who beat Europe by a score of 17–11. The next match will be at Le Golf National in Paris, France in September 2018.The Ryder Cup is contested in a match play format, which involves different methods of the format. A foursomes match is contested with two members from each team playing alternate shots. A fourball match consists of two players from either team, who each play their own shot throughout the round. The player that completes the hole in the lowest number of shots wins the hole. Singles matches are also played, with players from each team contesting a one-on-one match. The winner of each match scores a point for their team, if a match is tied after 18 holes then each team is awarded a ½ point. The format of the competition has changed throughout its history. Originally, foursome matches were played one day, with singles matches over 36 holes the next. Since 1979, the format has consisted of 28 matches held over three days, with each match worth a point. The first two days consist of eight matches; four foursomes and four fourball matches. The final day sees all 12 members of each team competing in singles matches.The United States are the most successful team in the history of the competition; they have won 26 of the 41 matches that have been contested, 18 of which were before 1979, when the competition was contested between Great Britain and Ireland and the United States. In the 19 matches since the inclusion of European golfers, Europe has won ten, the United States eight, with one match tied.