Ella Marija Lani Yelich-O'Connor (born 7 November 1996), known professionally as Lorde (pronounced lord), is a New Zealand singer, songwriter, and record producer. Born in the Auckland suburb of Takapuna and raised in neighbouring Devonport, New Zealand, she began performing in her early teens. She signed with Universal Music Group in 2009 and was later paired with songwriter and record producer Joel Little. At the age of sixteen, she released her first extended play, The Love Club EP (2012), reaching number two on the national record charts in both New Zealand and Australia.
"Royals" was released as Lorde's debut single in mid-2013, becoming an international crossover hit and peaking atop many national charts. At 17, it made her the youngest solo artist to achieve a number-one single on the US Billboard Hot 100 since 1987. Lorde's debut studio album Pure Heroine (2013) garnered positive reviews for her depiction of suburban adolescence; yielding the additional top-ten single "Team". The album topped the national charts in New Zealand and Australia and reached number three on the US Billboard 200.
In 2014, Lorde curated the soundtrack for The Hunger Games: Mockingjay – Part 1 (2014) and provided its lead single, "Yellow Flicker Beat", for which she was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song. Lorde released her second studio album Melodrama (2017) after a three-year hiatus, launched with "Green Light" as its lead single. The album debuted at number one in New Zealand and Australia, as well as topping the US Billboard 200. She served as an executive producer alongside Jack Antonoff. The record deals with themes of heartbreak and solitude.
Lorde's music consists of subgenres such as dream pop and indietronica. She chose her stage name due to her fascination with "royals and aristocracy". She has earned two Grammy Awards, two Brit Awards and ten New Zealand Music Awards. In 2013, she was named among Time's most influential teenagers in the world, and in the following year, she was part of Forbes's "30 Under 30" list.