Malaysia Airlines Flight 370  was a scheduled international passenger flight operated by Malaysia Airlines that disappeared on 8 March 2014 while flying from Kuala Lumpur International Airport, Malaysia, to its destination, Beijing Capital International Airport in China. Commonly referred to as "MH370", "Flight 370" or "Flight MH370", the flight was also marketed as China Southern Airlines Flight 748 (CZ748/CSN748) through a codeshare.  The crew of the Boeing 777-200ER aircraft last made contact with air traffic control (ATC) around 38 minutes after takeoff when the flight was over the South China Sea. The aircraft was lost from ATC radar screens minutes later, but was tracked by military radar for another hour, deviating westwards from its planned flight path, crossing the Malay Peninsula and Andaman Sea. It left radar range 200 nautical miles (370 km) northwest of Penang Island in northwestern Malaysia. With all 227 passengers and 12 crew on board presumed dead, the disappearance of Flight 370 was the deadliest incident involving a Boeing 777 and the deadliest incident in Malaysia Airlines' history, until it was surpassed in both regards by Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 four months later. The combined loss led to significant financial problems for Malaysia Airlines, which was renationalised by the Malaysian government in late 2014.
The search for the missing plane, which became the most costly in aviation history, focused initially on the South China and Andaman seas, before analysis of the aircraft's automated communications with an Inmarsat satellite identified a possible crash site somewhere in the southern Indian Ocean. The lack of official information in the days following the disappearance prompted fierce criticism from the Chinese public, particularly from relatives of the passengers; most on board Flight 370 were of Chinese origin. Several pieces of marine debris confirmed to be from the aircraft were washed ashore in the western Indian Ocean during 2015 and 2016. After a three-year search across 120,000 km2 (46,000 sq mi) of ocean failed to locate the aircraft, the Joint Agency Coordination Centre heading the operation suspended their activities in January 2017. A second search launched in January 2018 by the private contractor Ocean Infinity also ended without success after six months. 
The disappearance of Flight 370 has been dubbed one of the greatest aviation mysteries of all time. Relying mostly on analysis of data from the Inmarsat satellite with which the aircraft last communicated, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau initially proposed that a hypoxia event was the most likely cause given the available evidence, although there has been no consensus on this theory among investigators. At various stages during the investigation, attention has turned towards possible hijacking scenarios, including crew involvement, and suspicion of the plane's cargo manifest; many unofficial theories have also been proposed in the media. In the absence of a definitive cause of the disappearance, safety recommendations and regulations within the air transport industry, citing Flight 370, have been mostly aimed at preventing a repetition of the circumstances surrounding the loss. These include increased battery life on underwater locator beacons, lengthening of recording times on flight data recorders and cockpit voice recorders, and new standards for aircraft position reporting over open ocean.
The final report from the Malaysian Ministry of Transport on the disappearance was released on 30 July 2018. It shed no new light on the fate of the plane, but did point to errors made by Malaysian air traffic controllers in their limited efforts in attempting to communicate with the aircraft. Following the reports of air traffic controllers failings, the Chairman of the Civil Aviation Authority of Malaysia, Azharuddin Abdul Rahman, resigned on 31 July 2018.