Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is an American live-action superhero children's television series that premiered on August 28, 1993, on the Fox Kids weekday afternoon block (later weekend morning block). It is the first entry of the Power Rangers franchise, and became a 1990s pop culture phenomenon alongside a large line of action figures and other merchandise. The show adapted stock footage from the Japanese TV series Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger, which was the 16th installment of Toei's Super Sentai franchise. The second and third seasons of the show drew elements and stock footage from Gosei Sentai Dairanger and Ninja Sentai Kakuranger, respectively, though the Zyuranger costumes were still used for the lead cast in these last two seasons. Only the mecha and the Kiba Ranger costume (worn by the White Ranger) from Dairanger were featured in the second season, while only the mecha from Kakuranger was featured in the third season; though the Kakuranger costumes were later used for the miniseries Mighty Morphin Alien Rangers. The series was produced by MMPR Productions and distributed by Saban Entertainment (later Saban Brands). The show's merchandise was produced and distributed by Bandai Entertainment.
In 2010, a re-version of Mighty Morphin Power Rangers, with a new logo, comic book-referenced graphics, and extra alternative special effects, was broadcast on ABC Kids, and Bandai produced brand new toys to coincide with the series and it was the final Power Rangers season to air on ABC Kids with Haim Saban reaqcuisitioned the series from Disney moving to Nickelodeon with the beginning of Power Rangers Samurai. The first 32 of season one's 60 episodes were remade with the revision graphics.
The series also spawned the feature film Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: The Movie, released by 20th Century Fox on June 30, 1995. A new film distributed by Lionsgate, simply titled Power Rangers, was released at Regency Village Theater in Los Angeles on March 22, 2017 and was released nationwide on March 24, 2017.