Milo Yiannopoulos (; born Milo Hanrahan, 18 October 1984),  or pen name Milo Andreas Wagner, is a British polemicist, political commentator, public speaker and writer. Yiannopoulos is a former senior editor for Breitbart News, who describes himself as a "cultural libertarian". He is a critic of Islam, atheism, feminism, social justice, political correctness, and other movements.Much of the work at Breitbart which brought Yiannopoulos to national attention was inspired by the ideas of neo-Nazis and white nationalists. In October 2017, leaked emails revealed that Yiannopoulos had repeatedly solicited neo-Nazi and white supremacist figures on the alt-right for feedback and story ideas in his work for the website Breitbart. The leaked emails also showed that his book, Dangerous, and many of his Breitbart articles were ghost-written by a Breitbart colleague.Yiannopoulos was born and raised in Kent. After being expelled from Simon Langton Grammar School for Boys, he studied at the University of Manchester and Wolfson College, Cambridge, but failed to gain a degree from either. He began working in technology journalism for The Telegraph before co-running The Kernel, an online magazine, which was devoted to technology journalism, in 2011–13. He was one of the first journalists to cover the Gamergate controversy. In 2015 he began work at Breitbart, attracting attention for his opinions and the company's association with the alt-right. He relocated to the United States, where he became a vocal supporter of Donald Trump presidential campaign, 2016. In July 2016 he was permanently banned from Twitter for what the company cited as "inciting or engaging in the targeted abuse or harassment of others", referring to a racist harassment campaign against African-American actress Leslie Jones Twitter says Yiannopoulos inspired.Yiannopoulos has been accused of being an apologist for or supporting paedophilia, a charge he strenuously denies. The charge arises from a video clip in which he said that sexual relationships between 13-year-old boys and adult men and women can be "perfectly consensual" and positive experiences for the boys. Following the release of the tape, Yiannopoulos was forced out of his position at Breitbart, and lost a contract to publish his autobiography with Simon & Schuster. Yiannopoulos has denied that he is a supporter of paedophilic relationships and claimed that his statements that ostensibly support them were merely attempts to cope with his own past victimhood, as an object of child abuse by unnamed older men.