Gourang Chakraborty (born 16 June 1952), better known by his stage name Mithun Chakraborty (informally referred to as Mithun Da), is an Indian film actor, singer, producer, writer, social worker, entrepreneur, television presenter and a former Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament. He is the recipient of two Filmfare Awards and three National Film Awards. He made his acting debut with the art house drama Mrigayaa (1976), for which he won his first National Film Award for Best Actor.He began his career as a junior actor and went on to establish himself as one of the biggest stars in Bollywood. He is recognized as one of the best "dancing-heroes" in Bollywood with his "Disco and Desi" fusion-style dancing that is popular among the masses.
Chakraborty is best remembered for his role as Jimmy in the 1982 all-time-blockbuster movie Disco Dancer, which was a superhit in India and also in many other countries, especially the Soviet Union and Russia. In Russia, Chakraborty and Raj Kapoor are the most popular Indian actors.Besides Disco Dancer, Chakraborty is also remembered for his performance in films such as Suraksha, Saahas, Wardat, Pyar Jhukta Nahi, Dance Dance and Agneepath. In 1991, he won the Filmfare Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role as Krishnan Iyer Nariyal Paniwala in the film Agneepath.
He later won two more National Film Awards for his performances in  Tahader Katha (1992) and  Swami Vivekananda (1998). Chakraborty has appeared in more than 350 films, including Bengali, Hindi, Odia, Bhojpuri, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Punjabi pictures.
Chakraborty owns the Monarch Group, which has interests in the hospitality sector. and educational sector. He has also started the production house Paparatzy Productions. In 1992, he, along with Dilip Kumar and Sunil Dutt, set up a trust to help needy actors called Cine & T.V Artistes Association (CINTAA). He was also the Chairperson of Film Studios Setting & Allied Mazdoor Union, which takes care of the welfare of cine workers and resolves their demands and problems. The Television show Dance India Dance where Chakraborty is the Grandmaster has already been entered in Limca Book of Records and Guinness World Records Chakraborty played a crucial role of mediator between Pranab Mukherjee and Mamata Banerjee, winning the Congressman the support of the Trinamool chief in the 2012 presidential election.A comic book named Jimmy Zhingchak has been made based on Chakraborty.