MoviePass, Inc. is an American subscription-based movie ticketing service.Founded in 2011 and headquartered in New York City, the service allows subscribers to purchase up to three movie tickets per month for a monthly fee.  The service utilizes a mobile app, where users check-into a cinema and choose a film and showtime, which results in the cost of the ticket being loaded to a prepaid debit card, which is used to purchase the ticket from the cinema as usual.
The service went through several pricing structures following its original invite-only launch (including those limited to 2 or 3 films per month, and "unlimited" plans, with pricing based on market size), before announcing in August 2017 that it would switch to offering a plan with a single film per day priced at $9.95 per month. The change in business model came with the acquisition of a majority stake in the company by an analytics firm, which sought to widen the service's reach so it could collect more information on customer viewing habits.
MoviePass was named as one of the "25 Most Disruptive Apps of 2012" and part of "The Best of Everything in 2012" by Business Insider.  The 2017 change in business model has been successful in attracting customers; the service reported having 2 million subscribers in February 2018. That same month, the company announced at the Sundance Film Festival that it would also acquire and distribute films under the new subsidiary, MoviePass Ventures.
Since its launch, MoviePass has faced objections from major cinema chains, particularly AMC Theatres, over its business model and sustainability. These concerns were exacerbated in July 2018, when the service was forced to temporarily shut down for a day in order to negotiate an additional loan, and began to make other changes such as reducing its unlimited plan to only offer 3 no-cost tickets per-month (with further tickets only being discounted), implementing demand-based fees and blackouts on specific high-profile releases, and ultimately restricting the service to a limited selection of up to six specified films, rotating daily.