Nargis Dutt (born Fatima Rashid; 1 June 1929 – 3 May 1981) was an Indian film actress, who starred in classic films of Bollywood. She is regarded as one of the greatest actresses in the history of Hindi cinema. She made her screen debut in a minor role at the age of 5 with Talash-E-Haq (1935), but her acting career actually began with the film Tamanna (1942).
In a career that spanned three decades, Nargis appeared in numerous commercially successful as well as critically acclaimed films, many of which featured her alongside actor Raj Kapoor. She was the younger sister of the well-known actor Anwar Hussain. Her best-known role was that of Radha in the Academy Award-nominated Mother India (1957), a performance that won her the Filmfare Award for Best Actress. She would appear infrequently in films during the 1960s. Some of her films of this period include the drama Raat Aur Din (1967), for which she received the inaugural National Film Award for Best Actress.
Nargis had a longtime romantic relationship with actor Raj Kapoor but didn't marry him as he was already married at that time and had children. Instead Nargis married her Mother India co-star Sunil Dutt in 1958 who, reportedly, saved her life from a fire on the sets of Mother India. Together they had three children, including the actor Sanjay Dutt. Along with her husband, Nargis formed the Ajanta Arts Culture Troupe which roped in several leading actors and singers of the time and held stage shows at border areas. In early 1970s, Nargis became the first patron of The Spastic Society of India and her subsequent work with the organisation brought her recognition as a social worker and later a Rajya Sabha nomination in 1980.
On 3 May 1981 Nargis died from a pancreatic cancer at the age of 51, only three days before her son Sanjay Dutt made his debut in Hindi films with the film Rocky. In 1982, the Nargis Dutt Memorial Cancer Foundation was established in her memory. The award for Best Feature Film on National Integration in the Annual Film Awards ceremony is called the Nargis Dutt Award in her honor.

