Mian Muhammad Nawaz Sharif (Urdu/Punjabi: میاں محمد نواز شریف‬, born 25 December 1949) is a Pakistani businessman and politician who served for three non-consecutive terms as the Prime Minister of Pakistan, and for two terms as the Chief Minister of Punjab.Born into the upper-middle class Sharif family in Lahore, Sharif is the son of Muhammad Sharif, the founder of Ittefaq and Sharif Group. He is also the elder-brother of Shehbaz Sharif, who served as the Chief Minister of Punjab. According to the Election Commission of Pakistan, Sharif is the one of the wealthiest men in Pakistan, with an estimated net worth of at least Rs. 1.6 billion. Most of Sharif's wealth originates from his businesses in steel construction. 
Before entering politics in the 1970s, Sharif studied business at Government College and law at the University of Punjab. In 1981, Sharif was appointed by President Zia as the Minister of Finance for the province of Punjab. Backed by a loose coalition of conservatives, Sharif was elected as the Chief Minister of Punjab in 1985 and re-elected after the end of martial law in 1988. In 1990, Sharif led the conservative Islamic Democratic Alliance and became the 12th Prime Minister of Pakistan. 
After being ousted in 1993, when President Ghulam Ishaq Khan dissolved the National Assembly, Sharif served as the Leader of the Opposition to the government of Benazir Bhutto from 1993 to 1996. He returned to premiership after his party (PML-N) was elected in 1997, where he served until his removal in 1999 by military takeover. After serving in prison and exile for more than a decade, he returned to politics in 2011, and led his party into victory for a third time in 2013. In 2017, Sharif was removed from office by the Supreme Court of Pakistan regarding revelations from the Panama Papers case.Sharif's family came under judicial scrutiny due to the Panama Papers. In 2018, the Pakistani Supreme Court ruled that Sharif would be disqualified in holding public office for life due to his involvement in the Panama Papers case of 2017. On 6 July 2018, the Federal Judicial Complex of Pakistan sentenced Sharif to ten years in prison. Sharif's daughter Maryam Nawaz and her husband Safdar Awan were given prison sentences of seven years and one year, respectively. The two were subsequently arrested on their arrival in Lahore on 13 July. Maryam and Sharif were also fined £2 million and £8 million, respectively.