No Man's Sky is an action-adventure survival game developed and published by the indie studio Hello Games. It was released worldwide for PlayStation 4 and Microsoft Windows in August 2016, and for Xbox One in July 2018. The game is built around four pillars: exploration, survival, combat, and trading. Players are free to perform within the entirety of a procedurally generated deterministic open world universe, which includes over 18 quintillion planets. Through the game's procedural generation system, planets have their own ecosystems with unique forms of flora and fauna, and various sentient alien species may engage the player in combat or trade within planetary systems. Players advance in the game by mining for resources to power and improve their spacecraft, tools, and spacesuit for survival, buying and selling resources using credits earned by documenting flora and fauna, and otherwise seeking out the mystery around the Atlas, an entity at the center of the universe.
The founder of Hello Games, Sean Murray, had wanted to create a game that captured the sense of exploration and optimism of science fiction writings and art of the 1970s and 1980s with No Man's Sky. The game was developed over three years by a small team at Hello Games with promotional and publishing help from Sony Interactive Entertainment. The game was seen as an ambitious project by a small team by the gaming media, and Murray and Hello Games drew significant attention leading to its release. At release, the game was found to be lacking several features that Murray had previously stated would be present, particularly multiplayer capabilities, though Murray had tried to downplay expectations prior to launch.
Critically, the game received a wide range of mixed reviews, with some praising the technical achievements of the procedurally generated universe, while others considered the gameplay lacklustre and repetitive. Additionally, the lack of promised features, and Hello Games' lack of communication in the months following the launch, created backlash from its player base. The promotion and marketing for No Man's Sky became a subject of debate, and the video game industry has used No Man's Sky as an example of missteps to avoid in marketing. Hello Games has remained committed to improving and expanding the game, while it continued to have a cult following of players. Since the initial criticism, the game has received multiple major content updates that have introduced numerous previously missing features, which has generally improved its overall reception.