One Day at a Time is an American comedy web television series based on Norman Lear's 1975–1984 sitcom of the same name. It was Lear’s company, Act III Productions, that approached Sony with the idea of reimagining the original series with a Latino family. It was developed by Gloria Calderon Kellett and Mike Royce, with Lear and his producing partner, Brent Miller as executive producers. The series features an ensemble cast starring Justina Machado, Todd Grinnell, Isabella Gomez, Marcel Ruiz, Stephen Tobolowsky, and Rita Moreno. The show revolves around a Cuban-American family living in Los Angeles, focusing on a single mom who is an Army veteran dealing with PTSD, her kids and her Cuban mother. The re-imagination of the original CBS sitcom tackles important issues like mental illness, immigration, sexism, homophobia, and racism that face Latinos living in the United States. 
Filming took place in Los Angeles, California at Sony Pictures Studios in Stage 25. It was shot with a multiple-camera setup in front of a studio audience. The first season consisted of thirteen episodes and it was released on January 6, 2017. On March 4, 2017, Netflix renewed the series for a second season. Filming of the second season began in May 2017 and ended in September 2017. On January 26, 2018, the second season premiered on the streaming service with thirteen episodes. On March 26, 2018, a third season was ordered.Upon its release, the show received critical acclaim, with critics and journalists praising the writing and the performances of Justina Machado and Rita Moreno. One Day at a Time was listed as one of the best television shows of 2017, with over eighteen critics ranking it as one of the top ten shows of the year. The series received multiple awards and nominations, including a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Multi-Camera Picture Editing for a Comedy Series (Pat Barnett). At the Imagen Foundation Awards won Best Primetime Television Program – Comedy, Best Actress – Television (Justina Machado), Best Supporting Actress – Television (Isabella Gomez) and Best Young Actor – Television (Marcel Ruiz). Rita Moreno was nominated for a Critics' Choice Television Award for Best Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series. The series was also nominated for a GLAAD Media Award for Outstanding Comedy Series.