Josep "Pep" Guardiola Sala (Catalan pronunciation: [ʒuˈzɛb ɡwəɾðiˈɔɫə]; born 18 January 1971) is a Spanish professional football coach and former player who is the current manager of the Premier League club Manchester City.
Regarded as one of the best midfielders of his generation, Guardiola was a creative and technically gifted midfielder who usually played in a deep-lying playmaking role as a defensive midfielder. He spent the majority of his career with Barcelona, forming a part of Johan Cruyff's "Dream Team" that won the club's first European Cup in 1992, and four successive La Liga titles from 1991 to 1994. He later captained the team from 1997 to 2001. He then played for Brescia and Roma in Italy, Al-Ahli in Qatar, and Dorados de Sinaloa in Mexico. Guardiola was capped 47 times for the Spanish national team and appeared at the 1994 FIFA World Cup, as well as UEFA Euro 2000. He also played friendly matches for Catalonia.
After retiring as a player, Guardiola briefly coached Barcelona B, and assumed control of the first-team in 2008. In his first season as the first team manager, he guided Barcelona to a treble, winning La Liga, Copa del Rey and the UEFA Champions League. In doing so, Guardiola became the youngest manager to win the Champions League. The following season, he led Barcelona to the Supercopa de España, UEFA Super Cup, FIFA Club World Cup and to a second La Liga title. In 2011, after leading Barcelona to another La Liga, Supercopa de España and UEFA Champions League, Guardiola was awarded the Catalan Parliament's Gold Medal, their highest honour. That same year, he was also named the FIFA World Coach of the Year. In his final season, he won the Copa del Rey, UEFA Super Cup, FIFA Club World Cup and the Supercopa de España, before departing in 2012.
After a sabbatical period, Bayern Munich announced Guardiola would join the club as manager in 2013. In his first season at the club, he won the Bundesliga, DFB-Pokal, UEFA Super Cup and the FIFA Club World Cup. He won seven trophies during his tenure in Germany; winning the Bundesliga every season he was there, as well as two domestic doubles. He left Bayern Munich for Manchester City in 2016, and guided them to the Premier League title in his second season as manager, breaking numerous domestic records as the team became the first to attain 100 league points.
As a manager, Guardiola has won 24 major honours, making him one of the most successful managers in world football. He also holds the record for the most consecutive league wins in La Liga, Bundesliga and the Premier League. He is regarded by many in the sport to be one of the greatest managers in football history.