Alecia Beth Moore (born September 8, 1979), known professionally as Pink (stylized as P!nk), is an American singer, songwriter, dancer, and actress. She was originally a founder of R&B girl group Choice in 1995. LaFace Records saw potential in Pink and offered her a solo recording contract. Her R&B-sounding debut album, Can't Take Me Home (2000), was certified double-platinum in the US and spawned two US Billboard Hot 100 top-ten songs: "There You Go" and "Most Girls". She gained further recognition with the collaborative single "Lady Marmalade" from the Moulin Rouge! soundtrack, which topped many charts worldwide. Pink's musical direction moved away to pop rock with her second album, Missundaztood (2001). It sold more than 12 million copies worldwide and yielded the international number-one hits "Get the Party Started", "Don't Let Me Get Me", and "Just Like a Pill".
Pink's third album, Try This (2003), generated considerably low sales, but earned her the Grammy Award for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance. She revived her popularity with multi-platinum studio albums, I'm Not Dead (2006) and Funhouse (2008), as well as a string of successful singles, including the US number ones "So What" and "Raise Your Glass". Her sixth studio album, The Truth About Love (2012), was her first album to debut atop the Billboard 200 and spawned her fourth US number-one single "Just Give Me a Reason". In 2014, Pink recorded a collaborative album, Rose Ave., with Canadian musician Dallas Green under a folk music duo named You+Me. Her seventh studio album, Beautiful Trauma (2017), became the world's third best-selling album of the year and spawned the track "What About Us".
Recognized for her distinctive, raspy voice and acrobatic stage presence, Pink has sold over 40 million albums and 50 million singles worldwide, making her one of the world's best-selling music artists. Her career accolades include three Grammy Awards, a Brit Award, a Daytime Emmy Award and seven MTV Video Music Awards, including the Video Vanguard Award. In 2009, Billboard named Pink the Pop Songs Artist of the Decade. Pink was also the second most-played female solo artist in the United Kingdom, during the 2000s decade, behind Madonna. VH1 ranked her number 10 on their list of the 100 Greatest Women in Music, while Billboard awarded her the Woman of the Year award in 2013. At the 63rd annual BMI Pop Awards, she received the BMI President's Award for "her outstanding achievement in songwriting and global impact on pop culture and the entertainment industry."