Pokémon (Japanese: ポケモン, Hepburn: Pokemon, Japanese: [pokemoɴ]; English: ) is a media franchise managed by The Pokémon Company, a Japanese consortium between Nintendo, Game Freak, and Creatures. The franchise copyright is shared by all three companies, but Nintendo is the sole owner of the trademark. The franchise was created by Satoshi Tajiri in 1995, and is centered on fictional creatures called "Pokémon", which humans, known as Pokémon Trainers, catch and train to battle each other for sport. The English slogan for the franchise is "Gotta Catch 'Em All".The franchise began as a pair of video games for the original Game Boy that were developed by Game Freak and published by Nintendo. It spans a video game series, a trading card game, an anime television series, a film series, books, manga comics, music, toys, and merchandise. Pokémon is the highest-grossing media franchise of all time, with over ¥6 trillion ($59.1 billion) in total revenue. It includes the world's top-selling toy brand, the top-selling trading card game with over 25.7 billion cards sold, the second best-selling video game franchise (behind Nintendo's Mario franchise) with more than 300 million copies sold and over 800 million mobile downloads, and the most successful television show based on a video game with 20 seasons and over 1,000 episodes. The franchise is also represented in other Nintendo media, such as the Super Smash Bros. series.
In November 2005, 4Kids Entertainment, which had managed the non-game related licensing of Pokémon, announced that it had agreed not to renew the Pokémon representation agreement. The Pokémon Company International (formerly Pokémon USA Inc.), a subsidiary of Japan's Pokémon Co., oversees all Pokémon licensing outside Asia. The franchise celebrated its tenth anniversary in 2006. 2016 marks the 20th anniversary of the release of the original games, with the company celebrating by airing an ad during Super Bowl 50, issuing re-releases of Pokémon Red, Blue, and Yellow, and redesigning the way the games are played. The mobile augmented reality game Pokémon Go was released in July 2016. The first seventh-generation games Pokémon Sun and Moon were released worldwide on November 18, 2016. A live-action film adaptation based on Detective Pikachu began production in January 2018, and is set to release in 2019.