Quantico is an American television drama thriller series which aired on the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) from September 27, 2015, to August 3, 2018. Produced by ABC Studios, the series was created by Joshua Safran, who also served as the showrunner. Mark Gordon, Robert Sertner, Nicholas Pepper and Safran are its executive producers.
Priyanka Chopra stars as Alex Parrish, a bright FBI recruit who joins the agency after graduating from the FBI Academy and becomes a prime suspect of a terrorist attack on Grand Central Terminal. Quantico initially had two timelines: the present, when Parrish flees from captivity to prove her innocence, and the past, with her and her fellow recruits training at the academy, during which details of their individual lives are learned. The series switched to a single timeline from the middle of the second season onward.
In addition to Chopra, the first South Asian to headline an American network drama series, the original cast—which changed significantly as the series progressed—included Jake McLaughlin, Yasmine Al Massri, Johanna Braddy, Tate Ellington, and Graham Rogers as her fellow recruits and Josh Hopkins and Aunjanue Ellis as their trainers at the FBI Academy in Quantico, Virginia. The series' first season was primarily produced in Montreal, with downtown Montreal and Sherbrooke standing in for New York and Quantico; production moved to New York during the second season.
Quantico received positive reviews from critics, with praise for Chopra's performance and the diversity of the cast. However, the "confusing dual timelines" received some criticism. The series was nominated for four People's Choice Awards, with Chopra winning two: Favorite Actress in a New TV Series in 2016—making her the first South Asian to win a People's Choice Award—and Favorite Dramatic TV Actress in 2017. ABC renewed the series for a third season, and, as part of the renewal process, Safran was replaced as primary showrunner by Michael Seitzman. On May 11, 2018, ABC canceled the show after three seasons.