Raveena Tandon, also known by her married name Raveena Tandon Thadani, is an Indian actress, producer and a former model who primarily appears in Hindi films. She is the daughter of director Ravi Tandon. Tandon is the recipient of several awards, including a National Film Award and two Filmfare Awards and is one of Bollywood's most popular actresses and has subsequently established a career with a variety of character types in diverse film genres.
Tandon made her acting debut in Patthar Ke Phool (1991), and won a Filmfare Award for Lux New Face of the Year for her performance in the film. Subsequently she featured in several commercial successes including Zamane Se Kya Darna, Laadla, Aatish, Dilwale, Mohra (all 1994), Khiladiyon Ka Khiladi (1996), Ziddi , Ghulam-E-Mustafa (both 1997) , Gharwali Baharwali, Bade Miyan Chote Miyan, Anari No.1, Dulhe Raja (all 1998) among others. In the early 2000s, she ventured into more serious roles and turned towards arthouse and parallel cinema and got high critical acclaim for her performances including the 1999 action drama Shool, the 2000 family drama Bulandi, the 2001 supernatural thriller Aks, the 2002 horror Sandhya and the 2003 political drama Satta. She won the National Film Award for Best Actress for her performance in Kalpana Lajmi's Daman: A Victim of Marital Violence (2001). These accomplishments established her as a leading actress of Bollywood. She made a comeback in 2017 with a leading role in Maatr.
In addition to acting in films, Tandon is an active stage performer and has produced two films. She is also active in social work, especially in the field of combating child labour in India. Since 2009, Ms Tandon has also been associated with UNICEF on the issue of maternal and neonatal healthcare and well-being. In 2013, Tandon campaigned for PETA. She is known in the Indian media for publicly speaking her mind and being outspoken. She featured as a host on the TV shows Isi Ka Naam Zindagi and Simply Baatien With Raveena and as a talent judge on Sabse Bada Kalakar and The Drama Company. Tandon is married to Anil Thadani with whom she has a daughter and a son.