Walter Ray Allen Jr. (born July 20, 1975) is an American former professional basketball player who played 18 seasons in the National Basketball Association (NBA). 
Allen began his basketball career as a collegiate athlete for the Connecticut Huskies, where he played for three seasons, gaining a reputation as an efficient and deadly long-range shooter. He entered the NBA in 1996 as the fifth overall selection. In the NBA, he developed into a prolific scorer for the Milwaukee Bucks, featuring alongside Glenn Robinson and Sam Cassell as the team achieved playoff success. However, the trio were unable to capture a championship, and Allen was traded to the Seattle SuperSonics. In Seattle, Allen's reputation as a scorer was solidified; he would break several league records for three-point and free throw shooting. Despite this, a title still eluded Allen, and he was traded to the Boston Celtics in 2007. 
In Boston, Allen, alongside perennial All-Stars Kevin Garnett and Paul Pierce, are credited with forming the first "Big Three" in league history. This approach reaped rewards for both franchise and player, as Allen captured his first NBA championship in 2008. He remained with the franchise for five seasons, before departing in free agency to join the Miami Heat for two seasons. In Miami, Allen accepted a reserved role, emphasizing spot-up and clutch shooting, which allowed him to capture another championship in 2013. His last-ditch three-pointer in Game 6 of the 2013 NBA Finals is regarded as one of the most memorable plays in NBA history. 
Allen's list of individual accolades are extensive; he gained ten NBA All-Star designations, he won an Olympic gold medal as a member of the 2000 United States men's basketball team, and he also holds NBA records in career three-point field goals made in both the regular and postseason. He is also considered one of the best shooters of all-time.During his NBA career, Allen acted during some offseasons. He is best known for his role as basketball prodigy Jesus Shuttlesworth in He Got Game (1998). Allen's performance as Shuttlesworth was greatly praised by critics, and the name was borrowed as Allen's basketball nickname.