Roger Jason Stone Jr. (born August 27, 1952) is an American political consultant, lobbyist and strategist noted for his use of opposition research, usually for candidates of the Republican Party. Since the 1970s, Stone has worked on the campaigns of key Republican politicians such as Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, Jack Kemp, Bob Dole and Donald Trump.
In addition to serving as a frequent campaign advisor, Stone was previously a top political lobbyist. In 1980, he co-founded the pioneering Washington, D.C.-based lobbying firm Black, Manafort, Stone with principals Paul Manafort and Charles R. Black Jr. It recruited Peter G. Kelly and the firm was renamed Black, Manafort, Stone and Kelly in 1984. During the 1980s, BMSK became a top lobbying firm by leveraging its White House connections to attract high-paying clients including U.S. corporations, trade associations, and foreign governments. By 1990, it was one of the leading lobbyists for American companies and foreign organizations.Stone has variously been referred to in media as a "political dirty trickster", a "renowned infighter", a "seasoned practitioner of hard-edged politics", and a "veteran Republican strategist". Over the course of the Trump Campaign, Stone was regarded as promoting a number of falsehoods and conspiracy theories.Stone is the subject of a Netflix documentary film, titled Get Me Roger Stone, which focused on his past, and role in the 2016 presidential campaign of Donald Trump.Stone officially left the Trump campaign on August 8, 2015; however, it has been reported that, as part of the ongoing investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections, two associates of Stone have claimed that he collaborated with WikiLeaks owner Julian Assange in the spring of 2016 to discredit Hillary Clinton's campaign.  Stone has denied this.U.S. District Court Judge Ellen Huvelle has dismissed a lawsuit, brought by political activist group Protect Democracy, alleging that President Donald Trump's campaign, and former Trump adviser Roger Stone, conspired with Russia and WikiLeaks to publish hacked Democratic National Committee emails during the 2016 presidential election race.  The judge in the suit found that the suit was brought in the wrong jurisdiction.