Roy Stewart Moore (born February 11, 1947) is an American politician and jurist who served as the 27th and 31st Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Alabama. He was the Republican nominee in the 2017 United States Senate special election in Alabama to fill the seat vacated by Jeff Sessions.  Moore lost to Democratic candidate Doug Jones.Moore attended West Point and served as a company commander in the Military Police Corps during the Vietnam War. After graduating from the University of Alabama Law School, he joined the Etowah County district attorney's office, serving as an assistant district attorney from 1977 to 1982. In 1992 he was appointed as a circuit judge by Governor Guy Hunt to fill a vacancy, and elected to the position at the end of the term. In 2001 Moore was elected to the position of Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Alabama. Moore was removed from his position in November 2003 by the Alabama Court of the Judiciary for refusing a federal court's order to remove a marble monument of the Ten Commandments that he had placed in the rotunda of the Alabama Judicial Building.
Moore sought the Republican nomination for the governorship of Alabama in 2006 and 2010, but lost in the primaries. Moore was again elected Chief Justice in 2013, but was suspended in May 2016, for defying a U.S. Supreme Court decision about same-sex marriage.  Moore resigned in April 2017, and in September 2017 was nominated for the U.S. Senate seat vacated by Jeff Sessions.During this special election campaign for U.S. Senate, public allegations of sexual misconduct were made against him. Three women stated that he had sexually assaulted them when they were at the respective ages of 14, 16 and 28. Moore acknowledged that he may have approached and dated teenagers while he was in his 30s, but denied that any of the girls were underage or that he had sexually assaulted anyone.  President Donald Trump endorsed Moore a week before the election, after which some Republicans withdrew their opposition to Moore. Democrat Doug Jones won the election, becoming the first Democrat since 1992 to win a U.S. Senate seat in Alabama.Moore is considered an advocate of far-right politics. He attracted national media attention and controversy over his views on race, homosexuality, transgender people, and Islam, his belief that Christianity, as interpreted by him, should order public policy, and his past ties to neo-Confederates and white nationalist groups. Moore was a leading voice in the birther movement, which promoted the false claim that former President Barack Obama was not born in the United States. He founded the Foundation for Moral Law, a non-profit legal organization from which he collected more than $1 million over five years, though a far smaller amount was indicated on its tax filings.