The ongoing Special Counsel investigation is a United States law enforcement and counterintelligence investigation of the Russian government's efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election, including an investigation of any possible links and/or coordination between Donald Trump's presidential campaign and the Russian government, "and any matters that arose or may arise directly from the investigation."  The scope of the investigation reportedly also includes potential obstruction of justice by Trump and others. The investigation, since it began May 17, 2017, has been conducted by the United States Department of Justice Office of Special Counsel, headed by Robert Mueller, a former Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). Mueller's investigation took over several FBI investigations including those involving former campaign chairman Paul Manafort and former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, both of which started after the 2016 presidential election.The investigation has resulted in dozens of indictments for federal crimes. In October 2017, Manafort was indicted on numerous counts in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. In February 2018, he was indicted on numerous counts in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia and on August 21, 2018, a jury found him guilty on eight felony counts. Flynn pleaded guilty to making false statements to the FBI and became a cooperating witness in December 2017. Mueller further secured guilty pleas from Manafort's business partner Rick Gates, former Trump campaign adviser George Papadopoulos, Dutch attorney Alex van der Zwaan, and Richard Pinedo, all of whom became cooperating witnesses to the probe. In February 2018, Mueller indicted 13 Russian citizens and 3 Russian entities, most notably the Internet Research Agency, and in June 2018 added an indictment of Konstantin Kilimnik, Manafort's business partner. In July 2018, 12 members of the Russian GRU cyber espionage group known as Fancy Bear, responsible for the 2016 DNC email hacking, were indicted. Investigations into Trump's personal lawyer Michael Cohen were referred to the US Attorney's office of the Southern District of New York.While initially enjoying bipartisan support, the special counsel investigation became subject to criticism by Trump and his surrogates in the conservative media within months, with Sean Hannity eventually peddling a "deep state" conspiracy theory. Several allegations of investigators' misconduct have been raised and were almost immediately debunked, including supposed unlawful wire-tapping of Trump Tower during the campaign, unmasking of Trump associates on intelligence intercepts, FISA court alleged abuse against Carter Page detailed in the Nunes memo, the alleged installation of a mole in the Trump campaign, and the FBI being denied to forensically analyze the DNC servers.