Star Wars Rebels is an American 3D CGI animated television series produced by Lucasfilm Animation. With its story beginning fourteen years after Revenge of the Sith and five years before A New Hope, Rebels takes place during an era when the Galactic Empire is securing its grip on the galaxy. Imperial forces are hunting down the last of the Jedi Knights while a fledgling rebellion against the Empire is taking form. The visual style of Star Wars Rebels is inspired by the original Star Wars trilogy concept art by Ralph McQuarrie.The series premiered as a one-hour television film, Star Wars Rebels: Spark of Rebellion, on October 3, 2014 on Disney Channel prior to the premiere of the series on October 13 on Disney XD. The first season consisted of 14 episodes (released as four shorts, a film, Star Wars Rebels: Spark of Rebellion, and 13 regular episodes) and the series features new characters along with ones from the original trilogy. The second season of 20 episodes premiered on June 20, 2015, with a one-hour television film, Star Wars Rebels: The Siege of Lothal. The third season of 19 episodes premiered on September 24, 2016, with another one-hour television film, Star Wars Rebels: Steps Into Shadow. On April 15, 2017 during Star Wars Celebration, it was announced the fourth season would be its last: it premiered on October 16, 2017, with another one-hour television film, Star Wars Rebels: Heroes of Mandalore, and its final episode aired on March 5, 2018.Dave Filoni, Simon Kinberg and Greg Weisman served as executive producers of season one. Weisman left the show after season one. Filoni was also the Supervising Director for the first two seasons, a role he relinquished after accepting a promotion that expanded his creative role into overseeing all Lucasfilm Animation projects; he chose Justin Ridge to succeed him for season three.The series has been generally well received with several award winnings and nominations. A number of tie-in media has been released to expand upon the series' lore such as the comic book series Kanan and the novel Star Wars: A New Dawn.