Surinder Kapoor (23 December 1925 – 24 September 2011) was an Indian film producer. He produced Bollywood films and also served as President of the Film & Television Producers Guild of India from 1995 to 2001.  He was born in Peshawar, British India (in present-day Pakistan). Surinder Kapoor belonged to a Punjabi Hindu family from Peshawar.
Prithviraj Kapoor, the famous Bollywood actor and a distant cousin, is the one who invited Surinder Kapoor to Bombay to join the Hindi Film Industry. He started his film career as a secretary to Hindi film star of the 1950s Geeta Bali. The Dada Saheb Phalke Academy honoured him with the Shri L V Prasad Phalke award in 2009. When asked in an interview, how he established S.K.International Films, he quoted in an interview "Rajesh Khanna who played the title-role in Shehzada was truly of a princely disposition. He started shooting for me without ever discussing the price, saying that we could settle that once the film is made, he said and made banner S. K. International Films became an acknowledged company." His first successful film in Hindi as a producer was Shehzada directed by K. Shankar which was a remake of Tamil film Idhu Sathiyam (1963). However, Surinder's subsequent release Phool Khile Hain Gulshan Gulshan (film) and Bikash Rao were flops, due to which he went into huge debts. Later as a producer in 1980's he made good money with his productions, which were remakes of Tamil or Telugu films like Hum Paanch, Woh Saat Din, Loafer, Judaai, Sirf Tum, Hamara Dil Aapke Paas Hai, Pukar, No Entry - all of them starring his son Anil Kapoor in the lead.
He died after suffering a cardiac arrest on 24 September 2011.His three sons, Boney, Anil and Sanjay, are also involved in the film industry. Anil Kapoor is a successful Bollywood actor. His daughter-in-law Sridevi married to his eldest son Boney was a famous Bollywood actress. His daughter, Reena, is married to Sandeep Marwah of Marwah Films & Video Studios. Boney is a well known and a famous Producer and Sanjay acted in several movies.