Susan Margaret Collins (born December 7, 1952) is an American politician serving as the senior United States Senator for Maine, first elected in 1996. A Republican, Collins is the Chair of the Senate Special Committee on Aging and is a former Chair of the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. She also is known for her long consecutive voting streak, which reached 6,000 votes in September 2015. She is the most Senior Republican woman in the Senate and dean of Maine's congressional delegation. Collins has been described as the Senate's most moderate Republican. She often positions herself as a pivotal vote, thus becoming a focal point during highly watched legislation. In such situations, having waited until it is clear that an "independent" vote will not affect the outcome, she sometimes votes against the GOP majority. Born in Caribou, Maine, Collins is a graduate of St. Lawrence University. Beginning her career as a staff assistant for Senator William Cohen in 1975, she later became staff director of the Oversight of Government Management Subcommittee of the Committee on Governmental Affairs (which later became the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs) in 1981.
She was then appointed as the Commissioner of the Maine Department of Professional and Financial Regulation by Governor John R. McKernan, Jr. in 1987. In 1992 she was appointed by President George H. W. Bush as the director of the Small Business Administration's regional office in Boston. Staying in Massachusetts, Collins became that state's Deputy State Treasurer in 1993.
After moving back to Maine in 1994, Collins became the Republican nominee for Governor in the 1994 general election. Becoming the first woman to become the nominee of a major party for Governor of Maine, Collins finished third in a four-way race with 23% of the vote. After her bid for Governor in 1994, Collins became the founding director of the Center for Family Business at Husson University. Collins was first elected to the Senate in 1996. She has been re-elected three times, in 2002, 2008, and 2014.