The Infinity Gauntlet is an American comic book published by Marvel Comics. The story, written by Jim Starlin and pencilled by George Pérez and Ron Lim, was first serialized as a six-issue limited series from July to December 1991. As the main piece of a crossover event, some plot elements were featured in tie-in issues of other Marvel publications. Since its initial publication, the series has been reprinted in various formats and editions.
The roots of the series date to concepts developed in comics Starlin wrote and drew for Marvel in the 1970s, primarily Thanos and the Infinity Gems. Starlin returned to Marvel in 1990 as the writer for Silver Surfer volume 3 beginning with issue #34, assisted by Lim on pencils. Their storyline developed through the next sixteen issues and the two-issue spin-off limited series Thanos Quest before concluding in The Infinity Gauntlet. Fan-favorite artist Pérez drew the first three issues and eight pages of issue four before his busy schedule and unhappiness with the story led to him being replaced by Lim.
At the start of The Infinity Gauntlet, the alien nihilist Thanos has collected the six Infinity Gems and attached them to his gauntlet. With their combined power, he becomes like a god and sets out to win the affection of Mistress Death, the living embodiment of death in the Marvel Universe. When Thanos uses his powers to kill half of the living beings in the universe, Adam Warlock leads Earth's remaining heroes against him. After the Infinity Gauntlet is stolen by Thanos' villainous granddaughter Nebula, Thanos aids the remaining heroes in defeating her. Warlock ultimately obtains the Infinity Gauntlet and uses its power to undo the death and destruction caused by Thanos.
The series was a top seller for Marvel during publication and was followed by two immediate sequels, The Infinity War (1992) and The Infinity Crusade (1993). The story's events continued to be referenced in-story by comics for decades. The Infinity Gauntlet remained popular among fans, warranting multiple reprint editions and merchandise. Themes and plot elements have been repeatedly adapted into video games, animated cartoons, and film.