The Andy Griffith Show  is an American situation comedy which aired on CBS from October 3, 1960, to April 1, 1968, with a total of 249 half-hour episodes spanning over eight seasons—159 in black and white and 90 in color. The series partially originated from an episode of The Danny Thomas Show.
The show originally starred Andy Griffith in the role of Andy Taylor, the widowed sheriff of the fictional small community of Mayberry, North Carolina. Other major characters include Andy's inept but well-meaning deputy, who is also his cousin, Barney Fife (Don Knotts); Andy's spinster aunt and housekeeper, Bee Taylor (Frances Bavier), and Andy's precocious young son, Opie (Ron Howard). Eccentric townspeople and temperamental girlfriends complete the cast.
Regarding the tone of the show, Griffith said that despite a contemporary setting, the show evoked nostalgia, saying in a Today Show interview: "Well, though we never said it, and though it was shot in the '60s, it had a feeling of the '30s. It was, when we were doing it, of a time gone by."  The show also avoided unfavorable cultural aspects of this period, such as racism and segregation, by simply avoiding these topics with the all-white cast never encountering such situations. Black actors and actresses were only seen as background characters, and only one (Rockne Tarkington) ever had a speaking role on the show.The series never placed lower than seventh in the Nielsen ratings and ended its final season at number one. On separate occasions, it has been ranked by TV Guide as the 9th-best and 13th-best show in American television history, respectively. Though neither Griffith nor the show won awards during its 8-season run, co-stars Knotts and Bavier accumulated a combined total of six Emmy Awards. The series spawned its own spin-off, Gomer Pyle, U.S.M.C. (1964) and a reunion telemovie, Return to Mayberry (1986). After the eighth season, when Andy Griffith became one of the original cast members to leave the show, it was retitled Mayberry, R.F.D., with Ken Berry and Buddy Foster replacing Andy Griffith and Ron Howard in new roles. In the new format, it ran an additional three seasons and 78 episodes, ending in 1971. Reruns of the show are often aired to TV Land, MeTV and SundanceTV, while the complete series is available on DVD. The sitcom has also been made available on streaming video services such as Netflix. An annual festival celebrating the sitcom, Mayberry Days, is held each year in Griffith's hometown of Mount Airy, North Carolina.