The Hardy Boyz, often referred to simply as The Hardys, are a professional wrestling tag team consisting of real-life brothers Jeff and Matt Hardy who are currently signed to WWE. They first began teaming together in 1993 in independent promotions in North Carolina, winning the NWA 2000 Tag Team Championship in NWA 2000 and founded the Organization of Modern Extreme Grappling Arts, where they held the OMEGA Tag Team Championship. They both signed contracts with the World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) in 1998. In 2000, they were joined by Lita, and the trio became Team Xtreme.
After splitting as a team in 2002, the brothers reunited in 2006 and teamed sporadically afterward. They also appeared in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA), briefly reuniting in 2011 as members of Immortal and teaming more frequently from 2014 to 2017.
The Hardy Boyz gained fame for their participation in ladder matches and Tables, Ladders and Chairs matches with The Dudley Boyz/Team 3D and Edge and Christian. Overall, they are 11-time world tag team champions between WWE, TNA and ROH, having won the WWE/World Tag Team Championship six times, the Raw Tag Team Championship once, the WCW Tag Team Championship once in WWE, the TNA World Tag Team Championship twice and the ROH World Tag Team Championship once. Considered as one of the greatest tag teams of all time, they are the only team to have held the WWE/World, WCW, TNA, ROH and Raw Tag Team Championships. 
Both brothers also won singles championships during their runs, with each becoming multi-time world champions in their own right. In 2017, they held seven tag team titles from seven different promotions at the same time, including the ROH World Tag Team Championship and the TNA Tag Team Championships, being recognized as the only tag team in history to hold the titles simultaneously. After returning to WWE at WrestleMania 33, and winning the Raw Tag Team Championship at the event, they became the only tag team in history to have held tag team championships from all three major U.S. promotions within a month's span.