Trollhunters: Tales of Arcadia  is an American computer-animated fantasy television series created for Netflix by Guillermo del Toro and produced by DreamWorks Animation and Double Dare You Productions. It follows the story of James Lake Jr., a teenage boy who finds a mysterious amulet and stumbles across a secret realm inhabited by trolls and other magical creatures. Soon afterward, he and his friends are charged with protecting our world from the dangerous monsters that lurk in the shadows of their small suburban town.
The first two episodes of the series premiered on October 8, 2016, at the New York Comic Con. The first season was released worldwide on Netflix on December 23, 2016. The second season premiered on December 15, 2017, and the third and final season premiered on May 25, 2018.Since its release, Trollhunters has been widely praised as an ambitious and boundary-pushing animated series, with Filmink's Travis Johnson calling it "...the best children’s animation to come along since Avatar: The Last Airbender."   The series was nominated for nine Daytime Emmy Awards in 2017, winning more than any other animated or live-action television program that year. In its first two seasons, it has also received or been nominated for several Annie Awards, Kidscreen Awards, and a Saturn Award.  The show has also spawned several original children's books and has been adapted into a series of graphic novels by Marc Guggenheim and Richard Hamilton, released by Dark Horse.Anton Yelchin continued to be part of the series through the first two seasons, as he had recorded enough dialogue to complete them before his sudden death. Yelchin was also able to provide a portion of dialogue for the final season, while the remaining portions of dialogue was recorded by Emile Hirsch.Following the show's success, Guillermo del Toro announced that Trollhunters will be the first chapter in a trilogy of television series entitled Tales of Arcadia. The story will be continued in a science fiction inspired follow-up series entitled 3Below, and the trilogy will be concluded in a third and final fantasy series entitled Wizards.