The UCF Knights football team represents The University of Central Florida (UCF) in the sport of American football. The Knights compete in the Division I Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) and the East Division of the American Athletic Conference (The American). Their current head coach is Josh Heupel, formerly a player and coach at Oklahoma and offensive coordinator at Missouri. The Knights play their home games at the 44,206-seat Spectrum Stadium, which is located on UCF's main campus in Orlando, Florida, United States.
UCF first fielded a varsity football team in the fall of 1979 as a NCAA Division III program and subsequently completed their ascension to Division I–A, now known as the Division I Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS), in 1996, becoming the only program in NCAA history to have played in all four divisions of football. As a Division I–AA program, the Knights made the 1990 and 1993 playoffs, and were picked as the preseason No. 1 team to start the 1994 season.As of the 2017 regular season, UCF has 243 victories, has won five division championships and five conference championships, and an undefeated season in 2017. The Knights have a national championship for the 2017 season despite being excluded from that season's College Football Playoff.The Knights have made nine postseason appearances since joining the FBS, including winning two major bowls: the 2014 Fiesta Bowl and the 2018 Peach Bowl. The program has produced one Consensus All-American, Kevin Smith in 2007, and three Heisman Trophy candidates, Daunte Culpepper (QB) in 1998, Kevin Smith (RB) in 2007, and McKenzie Milton (QB)  in 2017. UCF has produced a long-line of accomplished NFL players, including Blake Bortles, A.J. Bouye, Kemal Ishmael, Brandon Marshall, Matt Prater, Asante Samuel, and Mike Sims-Walker. UCF has had four first-round picks in the NFL Draft, players in fourteen Super Bowls, and seven pro-bowlers. The Knights' main rivals are the South Florida Bulls.