Unbreakable is a 2000 American superhero thriller film written, produced, and directed by M. Night Shyamalan, and starring Bruce Willis and Samuel L. Jackson, alongside Robin Wright and Spencer Treat Clark. It is the first installment in the Unbreakable series. In Unbreakable, a security guard named David Dunn survives a horrific train crash. After the incident, with the help of a disabled comic art gallery owner named Elijah Price, he learns that he possesses superhuman powers. The film follows Dunn trying to explore and confront his powers and his life thus far while trying to navigate a difficult family life, constantly under the eerie, looming influence of Elijah Price.
Shyamalan organized the narrative of Unbreakable to parallel a comic book's traditional three-part story structure. After settling on the origin story, Shyamalan wrote the screenplay as a speculative screenplay with Bruce Willis already set to star in the film and Jackson in mind to portray Elijah Price. Filming began in April 2000 and was completed in July.
Unbreakable was released on November 22, 2000. It received positive reviews, with critics praising its aesthetics, the performances, and the score by James Newton Howard. The film has subsequently gained a strong cult following. A deconstruction of the superhero genre, many regard it as one of Shyamalan's best films, and one of the best superhero films. In 2011, Time listed the film as one of the top ten superhero movies of all time, ranking it number four. Quentin Tarantino also included it on his list of the top 20 films released since 1992.After years of development on a follow-up film, a thematic sequel, Split, with Willis reprising his role as David Dunn in a cameo role, was released in January 2017. After the financial and critical success of Split, Shyamalan immediately began working on a third film, titled Glass, which will be released January 18, 2019, thus making Unbreakable the first part of what has been referred to as the "Eastrail 177 Trilogy".