World War I (often abbreviated as WWI or WW1), also known as the First World War or the Great War, was a global war originating in Europe that lasted from 28 July 1914 to 11 November 1918. Contemporaneously described as the "war to end all wars", more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history. Over nine million combatants and seven million civilians died as a result of the war (including the victims of a number of genocides), a casualty rate exacerbated by the belligerents' technological and industrial sophistication, and the tactical stalemate caused by gruelling trench warfare. It was one of the deadliest conflicts in history and precipitated major political change, including the Revolutions of 1917–1923 in many of the nations involved. Unresolved rivalries at the end of the conflict contributed to the start of the Second World War twenty-one years later.The conflict initially involved two opposing coalitions: France, Russia and Britain, in the Triple Entente, against the Dual Alliance of Germany and Austria-Hungary. These two had combined with Italy in the 1882 Triple Alliance but as it was primarily defensive in nature, Italy was able to remain neutral in 1914. In reality, many of the terms were informal or secret and sometimes contradicted by other agreements; shortly after renewing the Triple Alliance in 1902, Italy secretly agreed with France to remain neutral if it was attacked by Germany. The coalitions expanded as the war widened: the Entente added Italy, Japan and the United States to form the Allied Powers, while the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria joined Germany and Austria as the Central Powers. 
On 28 June 1914, Gavrilo Princip, a Bosnian Serb supporter of Yugoslav nationalism, assassinated the Austro-Hungarian heir Archduke Franz Ferdinand while he was visiting Sarajevo. The instability caused by competing Russian and Austro-Hungarian objectives in the Balkans meant this led to a diplomatic crisis, which ended with Austria-Hungary issuing an ultimatum to Serbia.  Interlocking alliances formed over the previous decades meant the crisis quickly involved all the major European powers and the conflict spread around the world.
The Russian government ordered a partial and secret mobilisation on 24–25 July, then general mobilisation on 30 July after Austria-Hungary declared war on Serbia on 28th.  Germany demanded Russia demobilise and when this was refused, declared war on 1 August, with Austria-Hungary following on 6 August. In military discussions held with France in 1911, Russia committed to attack Germany within 15 days of mobilisation and accordingly two armies entered East Prussia on 17 August. This took the Germans by surprise, since their war plans assumed Russia could not mobilise sufficient troops in that time.
The 1871 Treaty of Versailles imposed on France by Germany after the Franco-Prussian War required them to pay an indemnity of 5 billion francs ($479 billion in 2011 values) and cede the provinces of Alsace-Lorraine. A desire to reverse that defeat plus their obligations under the Franco-Russian Alliance meant France began full mobilisation on 2 August in support of Russia. German offensive plans in the West required an invasion of neutral Belgium before moving towards Paris from the north and on 2 August, they issued an ultimatum, demanding free passage through Belgium;  when this was refused, on 3 August Germany entered Belgium and declared war with France. In response, the Belgian government invoked the 1839 Treaty of London, bringing Britain into the war with Germany on 4 August.On 12 August, Britain and France also declared war on Austria-Hungary; on 23rd, Japan joined the Allied Powers, seizing the opportunity to expand its sphere of influence by capturing German possessions in China and the Pacific. 
After the German march on Paris was halted in the Battle of the Marne, what became known as the Western Front settled into a battle of attrition, with a trench line that changed little until 1917. On the Eastern Front, the Russian army led a successful campaign against the Austro-Hungarians, but the Germans stopped its invasion of East Prussia in the battles of Tannenberg and the Masurian Lakes. In November 1914, the Ottoman Empire joined the Central Powers, opening fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia, and the Sinai Peninsula. In 1915, Italy joined the Allied Powers and Bulgaria joined the Central Powers. Romania joined the Allied Powers in 1916. After the sinking of seven US merchant ships by German submarines, and the revelation that the Germans were trying to get Mexico to make war on the United States, the US declared war on Germany on 6 April 1917.
The Russian government collapsed in March 1917 with the February Revolution, and the October Revolution followed by a further military defeat brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers via the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, which granted the Germans a significant victory. After the stunning German Spring Offensive along the Western Front in the spring of 1918, the Allied Powers rallied and drove back the Germans in the successful Hundred Days Offensive. On 4 November 1918, the Austro-Hungarian empire agreed to the Armistice of Villa Giusti, and Germany, which had its own trouble with revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918, ending the war in victory for the Allied Powers.
By the end of the war or soon after, the German Empire, Russian Empire, Austro-Hungarian Empire and the Ottoman Empire ceased to exist. National borders were redrawn, with nine independent nations restored or created, and Germany's colonies were parcelled out among the victors. During the Paris Peace Conference of 1919, the Big Four powers (Britain, France, the United States and Italy) imposed their terms in a series of treaties. The League of Nations was formed with the aim of preventing any repetition of such a conflict. This effort failed, and economic depression, renewed nationalism, weakened successor states, and feelings of humiliation (particularly in Germany) eventually contributed to the start of World War II.