X-Men Origins: Wolverine is a 2009 American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics fictional character Wolverine, distributed by 20th Century Fox. It is the fourth installment of the X-Men film series and the first spin-off of its standalone Wolverine trilogy. The film was directed by Gavin Hood, written by David Benioff and Skip Woods, and produced by and starring Hugh Jackman. It co-stars Liev Schreiber, Danny Huston, Dominic Monaghan, will.i.am  and Ryan Reynolds. The film is a prequel / spin-off focusing on the violent past of the mutant Wolverine and his relationship with his half-brother Victor Creed. The plot details Wolverine's childhood as James Howlett (Troye Sivan), his early encounters with Major William Stryker, his time with Team X and the bonding of Wolverine's skeleton with the indestructible metal adamantium during the Weapon X program.
The film was mostly shot in Australia and New Zealand, with Canada also serving as a location. Filming took place from January to May 2008. Production and post-production were troubled, with delays due to the weather and Jackman's other commitments, an incomplete screenplay that was still being written in Los Angeles while principal photography rolled in Australia, conflicts arising between director Hood and Fox's executives, and an unfinished workprint being leaked on the Internet one month before the film's debut.
X-Men Origins: Wolverine was released worldwide on May 1, 2009, the film was a financial success, opening at the top of the box office and grossing $179 million in the United States and Canada and over $373 million worldwide. Due to the mixed critical reaction and despite its success at the box office, the plans for X-Men Origins: Magneto were ultimately cancelled and its working draft script was handed over to Matthew Vaughn and his prequel; X-Men: First Class.
A second Wolverine film, The Wolverine, was released in 2013 to positive reviews and greater commercial success. A third film, Logan, was cited by critics as one of the best superhero films and marked Hugh Jackman's final portrayal of the character.